GOTABAYA
Presents to you a Reconstructed Country with a Future





My Vision...


Venerable members of the Maha Sangha, respected clergy of all faiths, all parents, citizens and youth of Sri Lanka, and dear friends...
Though I was born into a political family, I never wanted to be a politician, leave alone the President. My elder brothers, Chamal Rajapaksa and Mahinda Rajapaksa and my younger sibling Basil Rajapaksa have all been in active politics for many years. From my school days at Ananda College, Colombo, my desire was to join the Sri Lanka Army and serve the country and its people. But in 2005, after Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa became the Fifth Executive President of Sri Lanka, he wanted me to take up the position of Secretary, Ministry of Defence. I acceded to his request because of my desire to bring peace to our beautiful country, as it was then gripped by the fear of death and destruction due to the scourge of terrorism. There was the possibility that the country would have been divided on ethnic lines. Having accepted this responsibility, we were able to end the war against the world's most ruthless
terrorist organization and bring peace to the country. In the ensuing
period, I was entrusted with another task - urban development. The most significant result achieved in this context was that Colombo was adjudged as the foremost among the fastest growing and cleanest tourist cities in the world (by Master Card Index of Global Destinations).

Even after our government was defeated in 2015, I did not harbour any intention of entering politics. However, the majority of our people were shaken when the present rulers imposed legal obstacles on Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa's eligibility to contest future presidential elections. This is what motivated many people to
request that I consider entering politics, This eventually resulted in my being fielded as the presidential candidate in 2019. The call to come forward as the Presidential candidate was made to me by venerable members of the Maha Sangha, and the respected clergy of Christian, Hindu and Islam faiths, Mr Mahinda Rajapaksa of the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna, members of the political parties
of the Joint Opposition, many civic organizations, and people of all communities and religious faiths belonging to all walks of life. I thank you all, for the trust reposed in me.

I am only too well aware of the challenges I face at this presidential election. My main task would be to ensure that our motherland which is once again under threat from terrorist and extremist elements is safe and protected. National security is of paramount importance. We have to ensure that the peace that was won with much sacrifice is maintained. We must once again ensure that people of the Sinhala, Tamil, Muslim, and other communities of this country are able to live together harmoniously, with honour and dignity in an undivided country, under one law. The principle that "no-one is above the law" will have to be implemented
with rigour so that all citizens are treated as equals before the law. I have clearly understood that what you expect from me. Above everything else, is national security. Once we establish national security, achieving economic development will not be an insurmountable challenge.

The other important task will be to create a progressive national economy and a pluralistic society; we have to create an environment that provides our youth and local entrepreneurs with new opportunities, gives everyone new hope and a sense of pride, where people can use their skills, talents and business
acumen to be the world leaders in any field of their choice. It is only by empowering our people that we can strengthen and expand




the national economy. Our responsibility is to create an enabling environment for a citizen to be prosperous and contented, leading to a happy family, and a law abiding society in Sri Lanka. All over the world, environmental degradation has brought about havoc, and parts of our country have experienced severe drought and floods, simultaneously. It is therefore our responsibility to make our country, an example of sustainable development. At a time when nobody in the world thought it would be possible to bring peace to this country, we brought peace. Similarly, we will make Sri Lanka prosperous and beautiful. I have great faith in our collective ability to do so.

What we need at this hour is correct vision and unshakeable leadership. I thank you for entrusting me with the task of overcoming the challenges our country faces and leading our motherland towards peace and prosperity. This journey is being undertaken under the guidance of a proven leader, Mr Mahinda Rajapaksa. His wisdom and experience will be a great source of strength to us, in this national endeavour. I strongly believe that I will be able to create the peaceful, prosperous and beautiful Sri Lanka that you aspire to.

I, therefore, request your cooperation and invite you to join hands with me by voting for me at this presidential election.

May our Motherland be peaceful and prosperous!

May the blessings of the Noble Triple Gem be upon you, and God bless you!

Yours in Service,


Gotabaya Rajapaksa

Background




Although Sri Lanka is not considered a wealthy country going by economic indicators, according to human development indices, we are on par with developed countries. However, during the past few years, we have faced serious setbacks and other countries have overtaken Sri Lanka. In terms of annual economic growth we are now placed even below Afghanistan, a country engulfed by terrorism. This situation has to change.

The entire world has now embarked on a new journey in order to address the challenges of the modern era. There is the danger of human civilization being destroyed by terrorism fueled by religious extremism. There is the destruction of bio- diversity which threatens the living environment of humankind.
The large scale consumption of fossil fuels has raised global temperatures by 1 degree centigrade. Due to climatic changes millions of people are suffering from natural disasters such as drought, floods, crop failures etc. Due to undesirable economic and commercial competition, societal values are deteriorating resulting in the extensive spread of fraud, corruption and throughout the world. To overcome and defeat all these challenges, a sustainability revolution has begun globally.

What the world needs today is to be able to achieve sustainable development goals while safeguarding the benefits of the industrial revolution and maximizing the use of information
and communication technologies. The responsibility of all governments in the world is to achieve a series of desirable objectives: minimizing of inequality and eliminating poverty, improving people's health and lifestyle through the promotion appropriate agricultural practices, providing good education for all, making clean drinking water and cost-effective energy universally available, ensuring gainful employment for youth through green industries, the greening of cities to make them suitable for human habitation, promoting the saving habit among the people, ensuring equal and better opportunities for women, addressing issues of climate change and preventing the pollution of oceans, safeguarding bio-diversity and establishing a society that values and promotes peace. These are the 17 sustainable development goals of the United Nations. We have prepared a clear policy and a programme of action to achieve these targets with the participation of the people.

This policy document tilted 'A Vision for a Resurgent, Prosperous Country' is the result of a series of discourses, 'interaction with the village', conducted in

25,000 villages throughout our country during the past one year. We have identified the requirements of housing, electricity, drinking water, access roads, and irrigation facilities in every village. We will be preparing all our future budgetary plans on the basis of this grassroots level information already in our possession.

In addition to the proposals emanating from the village level discourses mentioned above, many other proposals were submitted to us by various individuals as well as local and international organizations. We appointed specialist committees consisting of 540 persons covering 28 subject
areas in order to consider all these proposals and prepare this policy document, These committees consisted of university professors, subject matter specialists, professionals, senior administrators, lawyers, engineers, entrepreneurs, industrialists, political party representatives, trade unionists, and civil society representatives. In addition to this, 27 advisory committees
set up by 'Viyathmaga' have been involved in the process of preparing our proposals and action plans, over the past three years.

By Implementing these policies Sri Lanka will be able to achieve maximum benefits from its natural resources, bio-diversity, mineral resources and renewable energy sources. Our intention is to mobilize and manage the educated human capital of our country to ensure that Sri Lanka becomes a pioneering nation in the era of sustainable development. We will provide vision and leadership guided by Buddhist philosophy and nurtured
by other religions, for all Sri Lankans to live in harmonious
co-existence; and to establish and sustain a lifestyle free from stress, based on spiritual and religious values.


Sri Lanka Today



When President Mahinda Rajapaksa took over the reigns of government in 2005, the GDP of Sri Lanka was USD 24.7 Billion, and the per capita income was USD 1,242. During the 9 years from 2006 to 2014, due to the rapid growth in the country, the GDP grew by 221% and the per capita income increased by an annual average of USD 287 and reached USD
3,821 by 2014. But from 2015 to 2018, per capita income grew only up to USD 4102, i.e. by 7% or by USD 70.25 annually, over the 4-year period.

When compared to 2014, the total tax burden of the general public and businesses in 2019 has doubled. The total public debt in 2006 was LKR 2,222 Billion, i.e., a very high 91% of the GDP. By the end of 2014, that is, during a period of 9 years, public debt had increased by LKR 5,169 Billion, reaching LKR 7,391 Billion. But, given the rapid increase of the GDP during this same period, from USD 24 billion to USD 79 billion, the total public debt had declined to 71% of the GDP. By the end of 2018 however, the total public debt had shot up to LKR 13,182 Billion, which works out to 91% of the GDP. During a period of four years, i.e., from 2014 to 2018, the incumbent government has plunged the country into a debt crisis by allowing the government foreign debt to grow by 38%, i.e., from USD 23.7 Billion to USD 32.6 Billion.

At the end of 2014, the rates of interest for 3-month treasury bills and 30-year treasury bonds was at single digit level helping the growth of the economy. By 2018, as a result of the infamous bond scam and certain ill-conceived economic policies, the rates of interest on government securities increased sharply, resulting in the government having to bear an increased interest cost. The increased interest cost the
government had to bear from 2015 has been estimated at USD
834.6 Million, an equivalent of LKR 151.1 Billion. This could be compared with the cost of construction of the Colombo Katunayake Expressway (LKR 48 Billion) and the cost of construction of Norochcholai coal power plant generating 900 MW of power (LKR 103 Billion).

Over the last four years, from 2015, unemployment has increased by 409,000. In 2014, the Colombo Stock Exchange was considered the best performing stock exchange in Asia as its market capitalization increased fourfold from USD 5.7 Billion to USD 23.7 Billion. It started collapsing from 2015 and as of today, its market capitalization has dropped to USD 15.3 Billion. Furthermore, it continues to decline.

We had only USD 2.7 Billion as our foreign reserves in 2005. By the end of 2014, the foreign reserves had been increased to USD 8.2 Billion. Foreign reserves dropped rapidly from 2015 onwards and the volume came down to USD 6.9 Billion by
the end of 2018. It had further declined to USD 6.0 Billion by 28th of February, 2019, which is lower than the USD 7.2 Billion we had at the end of 2010. As it is estimated that our foreign reserves should have reached at least USD 13.5 Billion in 2019,




it is implied that there is an actual shortfall of reserves of USD
7.5 Billion.

The Central Bank Bond scam cost the government LKR 145 Billion in incremental interest cost. The loss incurred by the Employees Provident Fund on that account, was LKR 20 Billion. The increase in government debt servicing costs resulting from the rupee depreciation was LKR 1,760 Billion. The loss incurred due to the cancellation of the leases on four Sri Lankan Airlines aircrafts amounted to LKR 17 Billion. The delays caused to the Port City project also resulted in the government granting of
five hectares of reclaimed land as compensation, estimated at a value of LKR 23 Billion. The total loss to the country caused by the wrong decisions and fraudulent actions of the incumbent government during a period 4 years amounted to LKR 1,971.1 Billion.

The present policy of selling strategic assets of the country at giveaway prices has resulted in foreigners being able to buy lands, a scarce resource, without any hindrance. The policy of selling the country's strategic assets continued through the sale of the Hambantota Port, the proposed sale of the Mattala airport, etc. The government has also paved the way
for legislation to be drafted to dispose of coastal land, the state banks and State Owned Enterprises.

A Vision for a Prosperous Nation
A productive citizen, a happy family, a disciplined society and a prosperous nation
The people of this country are now living in despair and fear. They have seen their country which was once growing rapidly as Asia's new miracle sliding back towards negative growth rates. They now live in fear of terrorist attacks and bomb explosions. The incumbent government has turned the country into a failed state riddled with corruption and characterized
by inefficiency. We are at a critical juncture where we can end this hopeless state of affairs and lay the foundation to build
a progressive and prosperous nation. Politicians, scholars and professionals have come together and worked out a programme of action consisting of 10 key policies aimed at achieving a fourfold outcome: a productive citizenry, a happy family, a disciplined society and a prosperous nation.

We solemnly pledge to build a prosperous Sri Lanka with the maximum participation of our people.

Contents


My Vision...	i
Background	ii
Sri Lanka Today	iii
A Vision for a Prosperous Nation	iii
A productive citizen, a happy family,
a disciplined society and a prosperous nation	iii
Chapter - 1
The 10 Key Policies	02
Chapter - 2
An Efficient Country
Free from Corruption	06
An Efficient Governance Mechanism	06
Defeating Corruption	07
State Enterprises Management Policy	08
Achieving National Unity
through Democratic Governance	09
Chapter - 3
A Safe and A Secure Country for All	12
National Security	12
April 21st Incident	13
A Country Free from Drugs	13
Security Services - A Secure Work Environment	14
A Contented Police Service	14
Civil Defence Force	15
In recognition of the services of the armed forces	15
Friendly and Non-aligned Foreign Policy	15
Chapter - 4
A Productive Citizen and
A Happy Family	18
New Vistas of Human Resource Development	20
An informed Citizen: A Society Endowed
with Knowledge	20
From Mother's Lap to Teacher's Care	20
Re-awakening of School Education	20
A Student-centered Education System in Place of Examination-centered Education System	21

University and Higher Vocational Education	21
A System of Higher Education
to produce Technocrats	22
Health First	23
The "Suwa Divimaga" Programme	23
Healthcare Facilities Development Programme	23
Indigenous and Ayurvedic Sector	25
Harnessing the Power of Youth	25
Sports for a Vibrant Youth	26
An Informed and Knowledgeable
Child Population	26
The Economic and Social
Contribution of Women	27
Differently Abled and Disabled People	27
A Society with Respected Senior Citizens	28
A Culture of "Working for the Country"	28
Towards a People-Centred Public Service	28
The Retired Community	29
Public Corporations, Semi Government Institutions and Banks	29
The Private Sector	29
Workforce in Foreign Employment	30
Private Security Services	30
A Comfortable Home for Each Family	30
Chapter - 5
People-centric Economy	34
A People-centric Economy	36
2020-2025: Macroeconomic Targets	36
Macroeconomic Policy Framework	36
Emergency Relief Plan	36
New Tax Policy	36
Cost of Living	37
A New System of Banking	38
Capital Market Reforms	38
Inclusive Development Indicator Approach	38
Agriculture to be Developed
through Advanced Technology	38
A Revolution in the Use of Fertilizer	39
Production of Seeds and Planting Material	39
Packaging and Storage	40
Marketing and Transport	40
Research for Agricultural Innovation	40
Immediate Action to Help Paddy Farmers	40







Export Crops	41
Tea	41
Rubber	41
Coconut	41
Other Export Crops	42
Cinnamon	42
Pepper	42
Strengthening the Fisheries Sector	42
Milk Production	43
Meat and Eggs for Export	43
Beyond Industrialisation	43
Tourism Industry	44
Apparel Industry	45
Construction Industry	45
Sugar Manufacturing	46
Small and Medium Industries	46
An Active Cooperative Movement	47
Chapter - 6
A Technology Based Society	50
A Technology Based Society (Smart Nation)	50
Chapter - 7
New Approach in National Spatial System	54
New Approach in National Spatial System	56
A9 with C9: Nine 'C' shaped Economic Corridors	56
Re-engineering Townships	56
Four Multi-dimensional Commercial Cities	56
National Cities	56
Connecting Cities	56
Cluster Cities	56
New Colombo-Commercial and Financial Hub	56
Comfortable Travel - Nature-Friendly
Transportation Network	56
Integrated Road Network	56
Transport Services	57
Train Transport Services	57
Ports and Air Services	57
Colombo Port	57
Hambantota Port	58
Developing Airports	58
Renewable Energy	58
Transformation Toward Renewable energy	58
Water	59
Disaster Management	59



Chapter - 8
A Sustainable Environmental Policy	62
A Sustainable Environmental Policy	63
Land	63
Industries	63
Waste Management	63
Atmosphere	64
Biodiversity	64
Ocean Resources	64
Settlements and Cities	64
Environmental Education	65
Chapter - 9
A Righteous, Disciplined and Law Abiding Society	68
A Righteous, Disciplined and Just Society	69
The Foremost Place to Religion	69
For a Law Abiding and Fair Society	69
A Transparent Mass Media Policy	70
History, Archeology and National Heritage	70
Culture, Literature and the Arts	71
Literary Field	71
Theatre/Stage Drama	71
Cinema Industry	71
Music	71
Dancing Sector	72
Arts and Sculpture Sector	72
Shanthikarma or Traditional Rituals	72
Social Protection and Welfare	72
Framework of Making Low Income Earners
as High Income Earners	72
Social Protection	73
Control of Crimes	73
Control of Road Accidents	73
Love for Animals	73
Chapter - 10
"Dialogue with the Village"	76
"Gama Samaga Pilisandara" "Dialogue
with the Village"	76
People-Centric Board and People-Centric Centers	76
"Gami Liyata Rate Saviya"	77
Regional Development	77
Tamil-Muslim Brotherhood	77
Estate Population	78






















































The 10 Key Policies

Chapter - 1
The 10 Key Policies



 


1. Priority to National Security
There are many international examples where the collapse or deterioration of national security eventually led to a country losing its status as a nation state. The continuity of any nation state depends on the emphasis placed on national security. Our government will adopt new methodologies to safeguard national security without compromising the democratic space available to our people
2. 
Friendly, Non-aligned, Foreign Policy
The basis of our foreign policy will be ensure that Sri Lanka's territorial integrity and independence are respected and protected in the interests of the citizen and future generations of this country. It also aims to ensure that Sri Lanka's dignity as a sovereign nation is respected. No harmful agreements /treaties will be entered into by our government. Our foreign policy will be based on non-alignment and mutual friendship and trust among nations.














02 	Vistas of Prosperity and Splendour 	Gotabaya Rajapaksa






3. An administration Free from Corruption
Today the people of the country expect all government officials and politicians to be of high moral standing and to provide a public service free from corruption and graft. This is the form of governance that will be carried out by our government.


4. A New Constitution that Fulfils the Wishes of the People
The constitutional changes that have taken place were introduced to suit the requirements of certain individuals and political parties, and have therefore failed to reflect the peoples' aspirations. It is our desire to bring about constitutional reforms in accordance with the wishes of the people.


5. A Productive Citizenry and Vibrant Human Resource
A country's progress is dependent upon its peoples' knowledge, skills and capabilities. These attributes change overtime and Sri Lanka too needs to develop its peoples' knowledge, skills and competencies to compete at a global level. This challenge will be undertaken by our government.


6. People Centric Economic Development
We pledge to develop a people centric economic model whereby every citizen of this country can participate and take pride in the work they do as every job is required for the progress of this country. The thrust of our growth model will be focused on promoting agriculture and fisheries to
become global players. This will be done through incentivizing entrepreneurs and infusing new technology to enhance production and productivity.


7. Technology Based Society
We pledge to bring about a technological revolution across all sectors. A country cannot progress without adapting to the rapid technological changes taking place. It is with this in mind that our policies will create the environment required to develop the IT competencies and language skills of future generations, in order to enable them to conquer global markets.
8. 
Development of Physical Resources
In order to develop the country it is paramount that we utilize every square inch of our country in a productive manner by integrating all regions. This will ensure that regional disparities are eliminated and income distribution takes place in an equitable manner. Therefore it is imperative that we fill the existing gaps in the physical infrastructure needed for this purpose. We as a government are ready to undertake this challenge.


9. Sustainable Environmental Management
It is our pledge to ensure that the environment is protected in all our development plans. This will ensure that future generations are handed over a country that is not polluted. We shall bring about amendments to existing laws, and if necessary new legislation will be introduced in order to strengthen and protect our forest cover, rivers, streams and wildlife.


10. Disciplined, Law Abiding and Values Based Society
It is our pledge to bring about a country where no one is above the law. Our intention is to ensure that the legal system works devoid of considerations of political affiliations, social standing and connections. In this context, we will also ensure that our traditional values as a country are protected. We will ensure that differently abled citizens and the young people of all religious beliefs and ethnicities are accorded the ability to develop their talents in a safe environment.














Gotabaya Rajapaksa 	Vistas of Prosperity and Splendour 	03















































An Efficient Country Free from Corruption



 An Efficient Governance Mechanism
 Defeating Corruption
 State Enterprises Management Policy
 Achieving National Unity through Democratic Governance
An Efficient Governance Mechanism
We will ensure that our government will remove all inefficiencies and make the public sector responsive to the people's and country's needs.
Defeating Corruption
We will eliminate waste and ensure that Sri Lanka is free of corruption and graft - a goal long desired by the people. It is our intention to mould not only a corruption-free politician but also a citizen who will not tolerate corruption.
State Enterprises Management Policy
We are against the privatization of State owned enterprises.
We will look at the existing management and capital structures of the SOEs and make them efficient so that they are not a burden to the people of this country.
Achieving National  Unity through Democratic Governance
Instead of pandering to the needs of NGOs and various interested parties at the international level, we must promulgate a new constitution that reflects the aspirations of our people. A Parliamentary Select Committee will be appointed to engage with the people, political leaders, and civil society groups and prepare a new constitution for Sri Lanka.


An Efficient Governance Mechanism
During the tenure of President Mahinda Rajapaksa, Sri Lanka was considered to be among the fastest developing countries in the world. During the past four and a half years Sri Lanka has become the worst performing country in the South Asian region (falling even below Afghanistan), due to the incumbent
government's ill-conceived policies and numerous inefficiencies.
As a result, there is a visible breakdown in the administration of the country. This has resulted in great inconvenience to the public sector, private sector, farmers, manufactures,
and entrepreneurs. We will ensure that these inefficiencies are eliminated and make the public sector responsive to the people's and country's needs.

 In order to deliver on our future development promises, we will ensure that the new cabinet of ministers will be appointed through a proper assessment of their skills and competencies. The parliamentarians who possess subject matter expertise and experience will be identified for

appointment as cabinet ministers to drive the vision of the government. Additionally, all cabinet ministers will be made accountable to the people of our country.
 Each ministry has to be managed on the advice of the relevant minister, by a competent ministry secretary with a team of dedicated public officers. As such, each ministry secretary will be appointed from among public officers with the requisite administrative experience and innovativeness or from among recognized professionals in the relevant field.
 In addition, a succession plan will be in place for all the executive and administrative staff. They will be provided with the needed skills, training and upgrading of technical knowledge as a part of enriching their careers. Training will
be provided in both local and foreign institutions on the basis of merit.





 All appointments as heads of State institutions, corporations and statutory boards, and appointments to Boards of Directors will be based on merit and leadership abilities.
A new selection process to these positions will be rigorously pursued, taking into consideration subject matter
knowledge, competencies, experience, and the track record of potential appointees.
 We will review all redundant laws, regulations and 'red tape' hampering the effective performance of State sector employees and replace such laws and regulations with legal instruments that would speed up the delivery of public services.
 We will disband the existing 'National Economic Council' and 'Strategic Enterprise Management Agency' and replace it with a 'National Policy, Planning and Implementation Commission' functioning directly under the President, to formulate national policies and plans, to determine public investment, to formulate national development strategies, to monitor the procurement process, to undertake project analysis and management - all components which are central to the national development process. This will ensure transparency in economic policy formulation and implementation.
 The administrative machinery will be revamped to ensure the participation of the people, as done earlier when these policy proposals were formulated. Under this arrangement, officials, professionals, and experienced senior citizens and other interest groups will also have the opportunity to make their contribution to the process.
 The structure of the cabinet of ministers will be rearranged so as to ensure that sustainable development goals are met by 2030, as announced by the United Nations in 2015.
 Our government will implement a systematic plan to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
 The establishment of a prosperous country is to create a country where all people live in contentment. We intend to take Sri Lanka to the topmost rungs of the World Happiness Index.
 Cabinet papers on government expenditure and public investment will be examined by a senior group of officials under the chairmanship of the Secretary to the Cabinet. The group will submit its observations and recommendations to the Cabinet of Ministers for consideration.
 The procurement of vehicles for the public sector (including Ministers) and purchase of multi-faceted office facilities will be suspended for a period of 3 years. In addition, the renting of such facilities will also be stopped for a period of three years.

Defeating Corruption
Since independence, all governments have been accused of corruption. However, the government that came to power in 2015, claiming it would bring about 'good governance', made a mockery that concept and outdid all previous governments in corruption. Bent on political vengeance and an attempt
to eliminate the Rajapaksas from politics, the 'yahapalana' government paradoxically ended up proving our innocence. While we thank this government for proving our innocence, we will not hesitate to bring to book all those responsible for corrupt practices such as the Central Bank Bond scam and
the maladministration of the Central Cultural Fund. The monies misappropriated will be recovered from those involved.

We pledge that under our government corruption and wasteful expenditure will not be tolerated and a part of the monies to be spent by our government for people-centric development will be found through the elimination of wasteful expenditure presently seen in the public sector. A country free of corruption has long been desired by our people. Our intention is to mould not only a corruption-free politician but also a citizen who will not tolerate corruption.

 We pledge to bring to justice all those involved in the Central Bank Bond scam, and other 20 major financial crimes.
 We will ensure that none of our politicians or senior public officials engage in any form of corrupt practice. If found guilty of such practices, they will be expelled from the party and their posts and brought before the law. The Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption will be further strengthened.
 We will ensure that already established Financial Crimes Investigation Division is regularized and institutionalized in a legal manner and kept independent so that the general public also can lodge complaints against those involved in financial crimes. A special court to hear cases relating to financial crimes and frauds will also be established.
 We will ensure that a proper online procurement system is in place for all public investments and expenditure, determination of taxes, awarding of contracts through competitive bidding and other such activities, as this will eradicate any form of rent seeking. This will eliminate the
need for an individual to take the final decision, thus leaving little room for bribery and corruption.
 Many countries have utilised technology to eliminate corruption. We too can easily adopt such systems. We intend introducing a national procurement system and implementing it with rigour and transparency. We will create a novel government machinery that will utilize public assets optimally and efficiently and respond to public needs.




 Laws will be promulgated to enable the introduction of an e-technology system to receive public complaints
anonymously and promote whistle blowing in the main public sector institutions that would become a strong deterrent to corruption and bribery in public life.
 With the promulgation of rules to address the issues of bribery and corruption and wasteful expenditure in the public sector, the private sector too should comply with such rules if we are to create a society free of bribery and corruption.
With this in view, we will strengthen the legal framework of the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.

State Enterprises Management Policy
If a country is to develop rapidly, it requires both an efficient public sector and a dynamic private sector to achieve the required national goals. We pledge that we will develop the State owned enterprises and make them profitable. We do not believe in privatizing such institutions. We will look at the
existing management and capital structures of SOEs and make them efficient so that they are not a burden to the people of this country.

 We will ensure that State owned enterprises are not a burden to the exchequer. Accordingly,
 The Chairmen and Boards of all State Owned Enterprises will be called upon to table a strategic plan to make such ventures profitable and financially independent. This plan will be reviewed annually and progress monitored.
 The Chairman and Board of Directors will be held totally accountable to eradicate all forms of malpractices and corruption in each of the institutions managed by them.
 All appointments to the Boards and the senior management teams will be based on merit and political affiliations will not be taken into account in making such appointments.
 All State banks, State enterprises and State corporations will be required to conduct forensic audits and ensure that income and expenditure are managed in a compliant manner; they will also be required to submit audited financial statements using accepted auditing standards on time. Any breach of this mandatory requirement would result in the removal of the chairperson and members of the Board.
 
Our government will not privatize any public enterprise and laws will be enacted to stop any public enterprise from being privatized. Laws will be introduced to safeguard and protect the majority stake or any interests of the State in those entities already privatized and nominee Board member/s would be bound to act by State policy.
 State enterprises such as the Bank of Ceylon, People's Bank, National Savings Bank, Sri Lanka Ports Authority, Airport and Aviation Authority, SriLankan Airlines, Ceylon Electricity Board, Ceylon Petroleum Corporation, National Water Supply and Drainage Board, Sri Lanka Transport Board and Sri Lanka Railways will all be managed by senior career professionals.
 To this end, we will establish a National Enterprises Authority that will ensure all such State enterprises are transformed into commercially viable, profit making entities adopting global best practices and prudent risk management strategies.
 State enterprises that perform similar kinds of activities and those that have become redundant would be suitably amalgamated to achieve efficiency as well as productivity.
 We will amalgamate the numerous State sector entities that focus on rural development, agriculture, tourism, plantations, research, construction, and exports and establish one entity to bring about efficiency in policy implementation.
 Timely submission of Annual reports by State enterprises will be made mandatory. Performance appraisal of such institutions will also be implemented. The Treasury will put in place a special monitoring scheme in respect of those enterprises deemed to be monetarily important to the government.
 In recruiting professionals to large State enterprises, subject matter specialists and proven managers would be provided opportunities and the existing laws governing salaries and emoluments would be revised enabling such professionals to be adequately remunerated. A scheme to monitor their performance will also be established.
 State enterprises will be made independent and would have to compete with private organizations in the same field. State enterprises will not be granted privileges which would negate market fundamentals.
 We will also ensure that all State enterprises are free from political interference and made financially independent.





Achieving National Unity through Democratic Governance
 The adoption of the 19th Constitutional Amendment has resulted in the disruption of the smooth functioning of the government. Public outrage at this state of affairs has been well documented. Rather than pandering to NGOs and certain interested foreign parties, we must promulgate a new constitution that reflects the aspirations of our people. A Parliamentary Select Committee will be appointed by our government to engage with the people, political leaders, and civil society groups and prepare a new constitution.
 In these deliberations, we will look into the Executive Presidency, the mixed electoral system, the Provincial Councils and strengthening of the independence of the judiciary.
 The Unitary State, ensuring the foremost place to Buddhism, establishing religious freedom and securing the fundamental rights of the people will be the corner stones of this process.
 In order to prevent minor tensions between religious and ethnic groups from developing into major calamities, an
Inter-Religious Advisory Council will be established under the chairmanship of the President.
 Although 13,784 LTTE cadres who surrendered with arms were rehabilitated and freed, similar measures have not been applied in respect of armed forces personnel who have been subject to accusations relating to various offences during the war. Armed forces personnel charged with various offences during the war and those who are already undergoing punishment as well as the remaining LTTE cadres charged with terrorism related offences will be rehabilitated and integrated with the rest of society as free persons.
 All those under detention for long periods, charged with terrorism related offences, will either be indicted or discharged within three months.
 One of the main factors contributing to tensions among communities is land. A National Land Commission will be established to prepare a proper land use policy taking into consideration historical and archeological factors, location of natural resources, requirements for urbanization, the development of infrastructure, and future development needs etc. All these will be factored in arriving at a viable land use policy at the national, provincial, district and local government levels.
 
Another contributory factor to tension among communities is the inability to communicate among themselves and
the resulting suspicion and discomfort. Therefore, we will bridge this 'communication gap' by making it mandatory for Sinhalese medium students to learn Tamil, and Tamil
medium students to learn Sinhalese, with the fullest support of the State. This would undoubtedly contribute towards national harmony.
 The unruly, indisciplined and ill-mannered behaviour of certain people's representatives and their supporters has painted a negative image of the politician in your minds. Therefore, we will ensure that all people's representatives conduct themselves in a disciplined and decent manner and unruly behavior on their part will be dealt with in terms of the law.
 Given the large sums of money required for election campaigns, unhealthy links have developed between politicians and racketeers. This situation has also given rise to a situation where moneyed persons of questionable integrity are able to come into politics. Therefore, we
will enact laws to curb election related expenditure and empower the Election Commission to institute legal action against any violations.















































A Safe and A Secure
Country for All



National Security
We know through experience that if we compromise on national security, we put economic growth and stability at risk. In the absence of national security, democratic institutions are also at risk. Therefore, national security will become our first priority.
April 21st Incident
Our government will dismantle all structures supporting and nurturing terrorism and extremism. Strict laws will be enacted to curtail such activity.
Security Services - A Secure Work Environment
A Country Free from Drugs
Friendly and Non- aligned Foreign Policy
The armed forces and the police who contributed immensely towards the defeat of the LTTE and thereby ensured the unity and territorial integrity of our country, have proved themselves to be professional and law abiding.
However, during the past five years, they have been subjected to humiliation and unfounded accusations. We will take resolute steps to
restore the dignity of the armed forces, the police and the Civil Defence Force.
The use of narcotics is entwined with economic and social degradation. Today, this menace has reached even school children. The danger is that these harmful drugs are now freely available and come in all forms
of attractive packaging, so as to make our children fall prey to these substances. We will
take all necessary steps to eradicate this drug menace.
We will not fall on our knees before any country in maintaining foreign and trade relations.
We will always be mindful of our national sovereignty and maintain friendly relations with other countries from a standpoint of equality.
Our government will restore Sri Lanka's national pride and dignity.


National Security
National security is of paramount importance for national development. If there is no peace in a country, that would affect people's daily lives and have a negative impact on the activities of the public and private sectors. Local and foreign investors also require a secure environment free from extremism and terrorism. If we compromise on national security, we endanger economic stability and growth. In the absence of national security, democratic institutions are also at risk. Therefore, national security will be a top priority for our government.

 We will ensure that Sri Lanka remains a unitary state. No one will be permitted to challenge this principle.
 
We will not permit any religious, ethnic or other form of extremism to take root in this country. We will ensure that every citizen regardless of ethnicity or religious belief is able to live without fear in this land.
 We will revamp the intelligence services, and bring them to the highest levels of performance. Capable officers will be recruited to the intelligence services as before. We will also strengthen the intelligence agencies of the armed forces and the police. Ensuring coordination among all these agencies will be the responsibility of a National Chief of Intelligence who will be endowed with adequate powers to carry out his responsibilities.





 We must have very strong working links with foreign intelligence agencies. Further, all our intelligence personnel will be provided with modern training, both locally and abroad. As inter-State crime is becoming more and more sophisticated, all intelligence personnel will be equipped to use modern Information and Communication Technologies in the performance of their duties.
 After 2015, personnel in our intelligence agencies, armed forces and the police have been subjected to humiliation, victimization, intimidation and imprisonment, which has resulted in a collapse of morale. This in turn has resulted in the breakdown of national security. We will provide personnel in this sphere with legal protection to enable them to perform their duties fearlessly and with dignity, without any political interference.
 Apart from ensuring national security, we will protect our country from international threats including threats
emanating from cyber space. We will ensure food security, and guarantee that the country is free from drug trafficking, money laundering and other such illegal activities that presently plague this country.
 We pledge to make this country a safe and a secure country for all citizens, especially for women and children.
 We will ensure that local and foreign investors are able to conduct their business in an environment free from corruption, graft, bribery, and intimidation.


April 21st Incident
The global ISIS network has spread its terror network to Sri Lanka as well. The Easter Sunday suicide attacks on the 21st April is ample evidence of this. The main reason for such bombings to take place in Sri Lanka less than 10 years after defeating terrorism, is the drastic breakdown of national security. The other reason is the emergence of a political and
social environment in Sri Lanka that supported extremism and terrorism. Our government will and dismantle all structures supporting terrorism and extremism and strict laws will be enacted to curtail such activity.

 We will appoint an independent commission to investigate into the activities of all those responsible for the April 21st terror attack and to expose the perpetrators to the people of our country. The recommendations of this commission will be implemented expeditiously and those found guilty for this heinous crime will be punished in accordance with the law.
 
We will also ensure that all those still needing medical care, attention and assistance as a result of their injuries will be taken care of, and those needing treatment overseas will be fully supported by the government to undergo treatment abroad.
 A scheme will be implemented to care for those who have been permanently disabled, on a long-term basis.
 Relatives who are looking after children who have lost their parents due to the terror attack will be provided financial assistance on a monthly basis.
 We will also provide compensation within two months, to affected families and all those who have been promised financial assistance to rebuild their lives, but have not received any from the present government.

A Country Free from Drugs
The use of narcotics is entwined with economic and social degradation. Today, this menace has reached even school children. The danger is that these harmful drugs are now freely available and come in all forms of attractive packaging designed to make our children fall prey to these substances. We pledge to eradicate this drug menace completely from this country.

 We will provide the latest technology to customs officers and other relevant authorities manning all airports and ports to enable them to stop the influx of these harmful substances into the country.
 While empowering the police and the armed forces to control the drug menace, public participation would also be sought to eradicate drugs from our country.
 We will also develop a programme to assist and rehabilitate all children who have fallen prey to drugs with the help of teachers, parents and social workers.
 We will ensure that a proper surveillance and inspection mechanism is in place to supervise all small shops, eateries, and drug stores that could easily lure children into using drugs. These measures will protect school children from having easy access to harmful drugs.
 A National Drug Rehabilitation Programme will be instituted to ensure that all those addicted to drugs are rehabilitated.
Medical assistance will be provided to help overcome their addiction. For this, we will establish four rehabilitation centers island wide, with modern treatment methods and prevention strategies.




Security Services - A Secure Work Environment
The armed forces and the police contributed immensely towards the defeat of the LTTE and thereby ensured the unity and territorial integrity of our country. They have been acknowledged to be professional and law abiding. However, during the past five years, they have been subjected to humiliation and unfounded accusations. We will take the necessary steps to restore the dignity of armed forces personnel, the police and the Civil Defence Force.

 We will take measures to swiftly release all armed forces personnel, police officers and CDF personnel imprisoned on false allegations, or on fabricated charges, and unite them with their loved ones.
 We will rectify anomalies in salaries and allowances, and address issues relating to promotions and pensions of all armed forces, police and civil defence force personnel.
 We will also ensure that all armed forces personnel in active service prior to 2009 will be duly compensated for delays in promotions.
 We will speedily examine issues relating to barrack and lodging facilities and other requirements of all armed forces personnel and address them at the earliest.
 We will continue to provide and improve the medical facilities available to armed forces, police and civil defence force personnel. We will continue to provide medical facilities to family members of such personnel and retired members of these services.
 We will ensure our armed forces are given additional opportunities to serve in UN peace keeping missions across the world. To this end, we will ensure that a proper transparent process for enlisting will be in place.
 We will provide concessionary housing loans to all serving, or disabled armed forces personnel and the spouses or children of deceased armed services personnel. Such loans can be used for the construction of a house, purchase of a new home or renovation of an existing home.
 We will also revisit the existing loan schemes and ensure that delays are eliminated.
 We will also ensure that all armed forces personnel in active service who have been selected for the award of medals and such other accolades will be duly rewarded. Foreign training opportunities presently suspended will be resumed.

A Contented Police Service
We do not underestimate the contribution made by the police to end the 30-year war against terrorism. They have contributed immensely to the success of the war effort. It is with profound gratitude that we remember the police war heroes 2,594 of whom sacrificed their lives and 1,567 of whom were disabled
in the line of duty during the war. We will not forget their service to the country. In a future government significant responsibilities will be placed on the police in ensuring national security. We will restructure the Sri Lanka police to ensure that the police service will be people friendly and police personnel will also
be accorded privileges similar to those of the armed forces personnel. We will also ensure that they will not have to bow to political pressures in carrying out their duties.

 We pledge to address all salary anomalies in the police service and would look into measures to have an adequate salary increment scheme.
 We pledge to bring about a more efficient and acceptable promotion mechanism, reducing the time taken to progress through the ranks. Those who possess the necessary qualifications and service merit will be able to progress from being a constable to a Senior Deputy Inspector General of Police, irrespective of gender.
 We will also create a police university similar to the Kotalawala Defence Academy to enable all police officers including police women to enhance their knowledge and skills.
 We will address all difficulties faced by the Police department and its personnel in discharging their duties, including the problem of insufficient transport facilities, new technology, infrastructure, overseas training, and transfers without political favours or interference. Steps will also be taken to establish a transparent scheme to appoint OICs to police stations.
 All politically motivated promotions and favours will be stopped forthwith and promotions will be based purely on performance reviews and merit.
 Due to shortfalls in the police cadre, police officers are required to serve longer shifts beyond 8 hours; this will be ended and all gaps in recruitment will be filled, thereby ensuring that no police officer works more than the stipulated eight hours.
 We will build adequate housing, i.e., quarters/hostel units for all police officers so that they can move from location to location as required without any issues. Every effort will be
made to provide opportunities for police officers to commute to work from their own homes.





 We will increase the meal allowances and other allowances of all police officers, as provided to armed forces personnel. These allowances will not be added to the salary, but will be paid along with the salary.
 We will provide a motorcycle to police officers below the rank of Inspector, who have to carry out field investigations. We will authorize the use of this motorcycle for personal use as well.
 We will remedy all the deficiencies in the police hospital and ensure that modern facilities are available in order to provide police personnel and their families with a quality health service.
 We will also examine the existing welfare facilities available to the police department, and we will make necessary adjustments to ensure that a more viable family centric welfare system is instituted, including a suitable insurance scheme.
 We will provide the needed support and assistance to the Police Sports Club and the Western and Eastern Police bands.


Civil Defence Force
 We will address and rectify all pension anomalies that exist within the Civil Defence Force.
 We will ensure that members of the Civil Defence Force are not transferred outside their home districts for long periods except under special circumstances.

In recognition of the services of the armed forces
The sacrifices made by our armed forces is not measurable in any manner. The value of the lives lost, the limbs lost, the pain that they underwent cannot be measured. They went through all that to protect and keep all Sri Lankans, Sinhalese, Tamils, Muslims, and Burghers safe from LTTE attacks and to ensure that we were not in harm's way. Therefore, it's now every citizen's duty to reciprocate and to keep them safe and happy and provide them with all possible facilities.

 Prior to 2015, departed soldiers and disabled soldiers were treated alike but since 2015, departed soldiers and disabled soldiers are treated differently. This has brought about changes in the payments made to them and caused a great deal of distress among these heroic war veterans who only want a decent living for themselves and their families. We will rectify this anomaly and make good on all outstanding arrears as well.
 
All permanently disabled soldiers will be entitled to obtain their salaries during their life time and after their demise, the salary will be paid to the spouse if he is married or to the parents of those who are not married.
 We will immediately put an end to any deductions made from the salaries of disabled soldiers.
 We will adopt a mechanism whereby all disabled soldiers who lost their limbs will be able to obtain artificial limbs at State cost. We will also redevelop the physiotherapy, rest and rehabilitation centers such as Abhimansala which was discontinued by the incumbent government.

Friendly and Non-aligned Foreign Policy
We will not fall on our knees before any country in maintaining foreign and trade relations. We will always be mindful of our national sovereignty and maintain friendly relations with other countries from a standpoint of equality. Our government will restore Sri Lanka's national pride and dignity.

 We will ensure that ownership of strategic assets and economically important natural resources are not transferred to any foreign country.
 We will adopt a non-aligned policy in all our foreign dealings and work with all friendly nations on equal terms.
 Given the fact that economic power is now shifting towards Asia, our focus will be on developing strong bonds and reciprocal commercial ties and trade relationships with our Asian neighbours.
 We must work closely with India to ensure regional security and also engage with other SAARC and BIMSTEC nations.
 We have to acknowledge the standing of developed countries such as the USA, China, European Union, Japan, Canada, South Africa, Australia, Russia, and Britain in commerce and trade.
 We will strive to develop enhanced trade relationships with the Middle East, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, South Korea, the Philippines, and Singapore.
 We will re-examine all bi-lateral trade agreements signed in the past 5 years. If these agreements contain any harmful or economically damaging provisions, they will be removed after discussions with the relevant country or countries. In the future, we will not enter into any agreements harmful
to the economic well-being of local industrialists and entrepreneurs.















































A Productive Citizen and a Happy Family



Human resources will be the foundation for creating a prosperous country. Therefore, human resource development will be the primary responsibility of our government.
A Wise Citizen: A Society Endowed with Knowledge
If we wish to see our younger generation becoming productive citizens, it is essential to impart to them new
knowledge and skills. We will focus special attention on preparing an action plan on education from pre-school to the tertiary level including technical education. We will expand opportunities for technical education and the use
of technology among students.
From Mother's Lap to Teacher's Care
We have identified the importance of pre-schools, day- care centres and early childhood development centres in the field of education.


Health First
Health is one of the main pillars in human capital development. Health is not restricted to physical, mental and social wellbeing, but applies to spiritual well-being as well. Healthcare will be delivered throughout the country on the basis of a National Health Policy.

The Economic and Social Contribution of Women Women play a critical role
in the social, political and
economic development of the country. We believe that citizens, families and
communities are shaped by the guidance and nurturing of women. Therefore, harnessing the contribution of women is vital to our short and long term development plans. We will assign high priority to increasing the labour force participation of women and in promoting women entrepreneurs.
Harnessing the Power of Youth
The country's youth, who account for almost one fourth of the total population, will be engaged as proactive partners in the country's sustainable development process. We will identify their aspirations and develop an effective programme to enable young people to reach their full potential.






An Informed and Knowledgeable Child Population
Children are Sri Lanka's future. The nation's future depends on how we guide children them to be healthy and productive citizens. They must not
be discriminatory towards religions, ethnicities and castes other than their own.

Differently Abled and Disabled People
We respect the rights of differently abled and disabled people. We are committed to their economic, and social rights and recognize that they need equal opportunities to realize their full potential.
A Society with Respected Senior Citizens
As Sri Lanka's elderly population increases, the country will face several social and economic challenges. A majority of the elderly are not eligible for pensions or insurance cover. Providing welfare measures to enable
the elderly to live with dignity will therefore be a priority.
A Culture of
"Working for the Country" The dynamism of a country's economy depends on its labour
force. A country's development
depends on its productivity. Therefore, a trained, energetic workforce with a culture of working for the country will be established to achieve accelerated development. It is our aspiration to create a worker who works hard and lives a richer, more fulfilled life.
A Comfortable Home for Each Family
While acknowledging that adequate housing is a basic need, it is also recognized that most families cannot afford housing. During our tenure in government we identified this as a pressing issue for the low income urban community and introduced not only permanent housing but also changed the living conditions and lifestyles of the urban poor. Once
in office we will continue the urban regeneration programme and will extend it to the rural communities to uplift their living standards.





New Vistas of Human Resource Development
The Human resource is the most valuable resource we possess. That resource can be developed by building a knowledge-centered economy based on the concept of a healthy and productive person and a happy family. This will be the foundation for creating a prosperous country. Therefore, human resource development will be the primary responsibility of our government.

An informed Citizen: A Society Endowed with Knowledge
If we wish to see our future generations becoming productive citizens of our country, it is essential to impart to them, new knowledge and skills. We will focus our special attention on preparing an action plan in this regard from pre-school to tertiary education including technical education. We intend expanding the opportunities available for technical education and the use of technology among students. To give effect to this, it is necessary to bring all institutions related to education under one ministry.

Comprehensive reforms will be undertaken to establish a quality education system to which all children would have a right to access from pre-school to the tertiary level education under a single curriculum in accordance with international standards.
This will enable young children to develop their inherent talents and skills and also to select the education stream that would provide them with a pathway to the employment market.

From Mother's Lap to Teacher's Care
We have identified the pre-school, day-care centre and early childhood development centre as an important stage in the field of education. At these centres, rather than children receiving education that is normally imparted in school, they could be taught valuable human qualities such as love, kindness, and compassion.

 State patronage will be provided to establish one pre- school and one day care centre conforming to acceptable standards, in each Grama Seva Niladhari division.
 There will be a monitoring mechanism under the central government to maintain these pre-schools and day-care centres.
 There will be compulsory teacher training, which includes knowledge in psychology for all pre-school teachers. On completion of this training, the teachers will be eligible to receive a government salary.

Re-awakening of School Education
 We strongly believe that 'free education' is a fundamental right of the people of our country. Therefore, top priority will be given to allocate adequate funds from the Annual budget to protect and continue the implementation of the free education policy.
 Infrastructure facilities and modern technology will be provided to needy rural schools to improve their quality and to prevent the closure of such schools. An extra allowance will be paid to teachers who serve in schools situated in very difficult and remote areas.
 Three (03) schools per Divisional Secretariat will be upgraded and provided with all the necessary physical and human resources. These schools will be designated as 'National Schools' thus increasing the present number of 353 National Schools to 1000. Steps will be taken to create a Cluster Schools system enabling children in other schools in the same Divisional Secretariat area to benefit from these enhanced facilities.
 In order to end the competition for school admissions, provincial schools will be upgraded to the level of national schools. Furthermore, in each district at least one trilingual, model secondary national school will be built on the lines of the Mahinda Rajapaksa Vidyalayas in Homagama and Matara. Twenty such model schools will be built within the first two years.
 Primary schools will be developed into 'Child-Friendly schools' and 50,000 Teacher Assistants will be recruited enabling the deployment of two teachers per classroom from Grade I to Grade V.
 In selecting students to State universities, the Z-score is currently determined on a district basis, regardless of the difference in the facilities provided to the main schools as against other schools in the same district which have lesser facilities and teachers. We intend introducing a new scientific method for university admissions based on the school rather than the district.
 Opportunities to enter the Principal grade will be provided to those teachers who possess the required knowledge, skills, training and experience. Furthermore, administrative reforms will be put in place, to provide opportunities not only for teachers who are subject coordinators, class heads, section heads etc., but others who have shown good performance to enhance their skills.





 One of our main objectives is to make the whole teacher community qualified graduates, and to achieve that goal, we will convert the existing eighteen (18) National Colleges of Education to university faculties.
 While appreciating the commitment of teachers, principals, teacher instructors, and education administrative officers, we intended creating one closed service, combining all these services.
 Changes to legal provisions will be made to enable teachers to secure transfers between a national school and a provincial school, without students, the schools or teachers being affected.
 A properly managed school transport service for students and teachers will be established as a public-private partnership.
 Our attention has been drawn to three main areas, viz.,
(1) curriculum development, (2) teacher training, and (3) infrastructure development in the school system, to enhance the quality of the education system. We will put in place a new scientific method that will look at these three critical areas in a new perspective.

A Student-centered Education System in Place of Examination-centered Education System
The present conventional education system, which has been a burden on the student, teachers and parents will not be
continued for long. Instead, a new education system based on innovation and knowledge will be introduced through which the new generation of students, teachers and parents would have easy access to global knowledge. This will enable students to receive education without stress or delay.

 The purpose of education should be to create a generation that is disciplined, healthy, stress free, and possessing an inquisitive mind instead of a generation that is stressed due to a competitive environment and possessing only book knowledge. Therefore, the school curriculum must be made lighter and assignments flexible so that there would be time in school time-tables for sports, aesthetics, foreign language learning, and the use of library facilities.
 The entire education system will be digitalized and the necessary knowledge, training and infrastructure will be provided to school children, teachers and parents.
 
The age limits for 'O levels and 'A' levels will be amended in accordance with the norm at international examinations, and reforms will be introduced to minimize the number of years spent to obtain a university degree.
 A new method will be introduced to test a student's IQ level at Grade 6, and they will be guided to higher studies according to their acquired skills and inherent skills.
 It is our objective to establish a truly student-centered education system. We will take suitable action to eliminate physical and mental punishments and ensure that there would be no abuse of children in the education system

University and Higher Vocational Education
Every parent's aspiration is for their children to obtain a university degree. We cannot be satisfied with the low percentage of students who are able to enter our universities after the GCE 'A' Levels. As a result, many parents try to send their children to foreign universities despite their economic difficulties. Therefore, a programme will be launched enable all qualified students to continue their higher education up
to degree level. Our aim is to create a graduate who is well- disciplined and possesses the knowledge and skills required by the employment market.

 Action will be taken to increase the intake of students into the universities and other higher education institutions, by providing the required academic and non-academic staff as well as other infrastructure facilities within a short period of time. We will make a substantial investment for this purpose.
 All universities will be converted to Smart Learning Universities and the necessary technical support will be provided.
 It is expected to commence technological faculties affiliated to universities to produce more technocrats to meet the demands of the 21st Century.
 An aviation university and a nautical university will be established with the aim of improving the quality and professionalism of those engaged in those fields.
 Adequate funds will be provided to university students to pursue new courses that will impart skills in demand in the 21st Century.
 The student's Mahapola financial assistance programme will be adequately enhanced.




 An interest free loan scheme will be introduced for the benefit of those who follow professional courses. The recipients would be able to repay the loans after they find employment.
 The government, with the support of the private sector, will open student hostels for university and other students and the income derived from these hostels will be made tax free.
 Steps will be taken to open 10 'university colleges' affiliated to existing aesthetic universities to enable students who study aesthetic subjects for 'O' Levels and 'A' Levels, to follow higher diplomas.
 The Open University education system will be enhanced to provide distance education with a skills-based job oriented higher education system using self-learning, guided learning, group learning and project training in order to produce a creative employee.
 Action will be taken to upgrade the Maritime University to international standard. Steps will be taken to expand the Kotelawala Defence University which is in great demand among students.
 All State universities will be upgraded so as to be included among world ranking universities and these institutions will be allowed to take any action necessary to achieve these objectives.
 Discussions will be held with Institutions that provide professional qualifications such as the Institute of Chartered Accountants, the Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT), and the Institute of Bankers to introduce new courses and upgrade their academic staff.
 Ragging has caused immense stress and trauma to students entering our universities as well to their parents. All steps will be taken to eradicate the culture of ragging from universities and other higher educational establishments. The governing councils will be empowered to eliminate ragging in their respective institutions.

A System of Higher Education to produce Technocrats
Our priority will be to produce 'smart technocrats' who are globally recognized and who possess internationally
acclaimed qualifications required by the local and international employment markets. They will be the leaders of the future world. Sri Lanka should be at the apex of innovation and creativity. Our intention is to have a highly paid and creative labour force.

 Regardless of whether one passes or fails the 'O' Levels or 'A' Levels, there will be other avenues to pursue technical and vocational courses.
 The quality of all existing vocational education institutes will be evaluated during the first six months. Those found to be suitable will be upgraded as Technological Degree
awarding institutes; steps will also be taken to enhance the quality of the courses as well as to increase the salaries and benefits of the academic and non-academic staff of these institutions.
 An island wide network of new 'technical university colleges' will be established.
 Four institutes affiliated to the Ceylon German Technical Training Institute (CGTTI) will be established in Matara, Mannar, Batticaloa, and Badulla. The number of existing university colleges will be increased from 6 to 20.
 Any student passing the 'O' Levels will be eligible to receive an NVQ certificate. We plan to increase the present scheme of 7 levels of the NVQ to 10. In the Technology stream, students will be able to pursue postgraduate qualifications leading up to Doctorate level. We also intend awarding foreign scholarships to deserving students. The Sri Lanka Qualification Framework (SLQF) will be revised so as to accurately calibrate the mainstream degrees and NVQ degree qualifications.
 Whilst at work, people should be able to learn and acquire new knowledge and skills, without any disruption to their employment. Online education, weekend education and open learning will be promoted for this purpose.
 We will provide all students in the vocational and technical streams, with financial assistance similar to the Mahapola scholarship scheme, and with subsidized transport, uniforms and computers.





 We will provide facilities for students of universities and other professional bodies to acquire a knowledge of English and other foreign languages, as well as Mathematics. Assistance would also be provided to young inventors to become entrepreneurs.
 Activities of all TVET institutions will be reviewed and a special coordinating mechanism will be established under the concept of 'One TVET system'.
 As a result of all these initiatives, it is the primary objective of our government to reduce the unskilled category in the labour force to 20% within the first two years and to bring it down to 10% by 2025.


Health First
In human capital development, health is of paramount importance. Health is not just physical, mental and social wellbeing, but spiritual well-being as well. Healthcare will be delivered throughout the country in accordance with the National Health Policy. Politically motivated changes that
took place in the health sector during the recent past will be reviewed in the best interests of patient-care services and rectified.

 The time has come to change our approach from 'treating a patient after the disease has developed' to preventing
diseases by promoting a healthy lifestyle. Action will be taken to implement a change in attitudes nationwide through an extensive programme titled "Suwa Divimaga"

The "Suwa Divimaga" Programme
 A programme to ensure the right of the people to have a healthy meal free of agrochemicals and additives.
 A programme to promote the production of organic food free of agrochemicals and additives.
 A programme to promote proper eating habits at all stages of life, childhood, school age and adulthood,
 A programme to create a healthy environment by preventing the contamination and pollution of the air we breathe,
the water we drink and the soil we cultivate, through our sustainable environment policy.
 
A national programme for the detection and prevention of non-communicable diseases such as cancer, heart disease, kidney disease and diabetes.
 Action will be taken according to the convention of the World Health Organization, to reduce smoking and alcohol usage and to eradicate usage of narcotic drugs within society.
 A programme to incorporate physical exercise as a routine life habit. Jogging tracks and fitness centres built by us
in Colombo and other urban areas which received public appreciation, will be expanded across the country under the direct supervision of the Urban Development Authority and maintained by the relevant local government institutions.
 Healthiness will be recognized as a main component of life. A programme will be implemented parallel to the Suwa Divimaga programme to ensure the achievement of such objectives.


Healthcare Facilities Development Programme
 The free health care system will be protected as a whole; annual appropriations for health care will be increased and the entirety of the funds will be spent for the betterment of patient care. Healthcare services delivered free of charge to our citizens will not be provided free of charge to foreigners.
 Large numbers of patients and long waiting lists etc., have become a daily challenge in hospitals all over the Island. This situation will be changed and the necessary steps will be taken to enable the patient to obtain healthcare services conveniently.
 The National Hospital of Sri Lanka, Colombo will be upgraded to international standard where cardiology services, emergency and complex treatment and operations will be delivered to patients.
 One selected hospital in every district will be fully-equipped and upgraded to a level similar to that of the National Hospital at present, in terms of medical treatment, surgical theatres and laboratory facilities.
 All other hospitals island-wide will be upgraded by providing adequate doctors, nursing staff, laboratory technicians, drugs and laboratory facilities. All out-patient services will be allocated to these hospitals and a referral system will be established to forward patients to the relevant hospitals.




 Modern innovations such as E-health and Telemedicine will be introduced for patients to obtain diagnoses and treatment conveniently and to prevent crowding at hospitals.
 Facilities will be improved to retain doctors in the country and to provide their services equitably throughout the island.
 Until healthcare delivery achieves the expected standard, shortages of ICU beds, equipment and machinery and the lack of an adequate number of operating theatres will be rapidly rectified to minimize waiting lists for surgical operations.
 Patient care services will be modernized and the prevailing queues and crowding of patients will be minimized.
 A mechanism accountable to the public regarding the maintenance and renovation of all hospitals and the provision of patient care necessities such as beds and other facilities without shortages will be established.
 A safe environment for patients as well as healthcare staff will be established by making it compulsory to run all state and private hospitals and laboratories according to ISO standards.
 A regulatory authority will be established to govern all hospitals, dispensaries and laboratories and to maintain healthcare services at an accepted standard.
 The supply of all consumables including drugs at all hospitals without shortages and interruption will be ensured by maintaining compulsory safe stock levels of essential drugs and supplies.
 An integrated programme will be implemented with the Ministry of Health together with all provincial and regional administrative institutions, to eradicate non-communicable diseases.
 Action will be taken to strictly ban imports of low-quality drugs to Sri Lanka. All drugs and medical consumables that can be produced within the country to international
standards, will be produced locally. An adequately equipped WHO-standard quality control laboratory will be established to safeguard the quality of the drugs.
 Import taxes for antioxidants and herbal products will be increased.
 
The procurement process of the Ministry of Health will be rectified and accountability will be ensured, so as to prevent corruption, malpractices and wastage.
 An online psychological counselling service with a 24-hour toll-free mobile hotline will be established under the Ministry of Health in order to maintain the quality of mental health of the people.
 A system of promotion based on clinical competence will be implemented for healthcare employees.
 Nursing Training Schools will be upgraded to degree- awarding level.
 Public health and nursing staff will be provided with modern technology and equipment to enable them to provide their services more conveniently.
 A programme will be commenced to promote medical research, innovation and training.
 Health services will be directed to contribute to the national economy through promoting health tourism.
 Postgraduate training opportunities for doctors will be increased. A programme to enable doctors to earn an income for the country through the Knowledge Economy will be put in place.
 The international recognition of the Sri Lankan medical profession and medical education will be maintained and this sector will be kept free of political influences.
 Responsibility and accountability in the medical administrative service will be ensured while increasing transparency and efficiency.
 A system will be developed to drive health policies and planning by research and audit data, for the betterment of patient care.





Indigenous and Ayurvedic Sector
Indigenous and ayurvedic medical systems have been prevalent in our country long before we acquired western medical knowledge. Indigenous medicine is not only a mode of treatment for ill-health, but also accepted as a part of our culture. However,it should be understood that the indigenous and ayurvedic systems have regressed to a certain extent due to various reasons. Therefore, we recognize the need to uplift
the status of these systems. This could be achieved by infusing into our indigenous and ayurvedic systems a more scientific and modern approach.

 Steps will be taken to establish a National Indigenous Medical Council and a Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Council.
 Steps will be taken to increase the proportion of the annual allocation for the Ministry of Health, apportioned to the indigenous sector.
 The indigenous sector can make a significant contribution in the prevention of diseases. The necessary facilities will be provided to develop this sector.
 Regional ayurvedic hospitals will be reviewed and steps will be taken to improve their standing.
 Research regarding indigenous drugs and treatment methods will be encouraged. A mechanism will be established to register the same.
 Steps will be taken to update the Ayurvedic Pharmacopeia.
 The Ministry of Tourism will be directed to develop a mechanism to cater to the demand generated by tourists for Ayurvedic, Siddha, Unani, and other indigenous, traditional and homeopathic treatment methods.
 Facilities will be provided to indigenous physicians and relevant stakeholders to cultivate herb gardens of all medical plants that have a high demand for the manufacture of ayurvedic drugs.
 There is a demand for herbal cosmetic products in the international market. Facilities will be provided to local producers and entrepreneurs who can engage
 In the manufacture and export of such products, to establish production facilities.
 Implementing a new system to rectify the issues that have arisen in registering traditional healers (Weda Mahatthayas) as indigenous doctors.
 The necessary facilities will be provided to upgrade the Institute of Indigenous Medicine attached to the University of Colombo to the level of an Ayurveda University, and to improve indigenous medical education.

Harnessing the Power of Youth
The country's youth, who account for almost one fourth of the total population, will be engaged as proactive partners in the country's sustainable development process. Towards this end, we will identify their aspirations and develop a viable and effective programme which will enable them to reach their full potential.

 The participation of youth in political decision making and in government will be ensured. In order to realize this goal, 25 percent of nominations for local government elections will be reserved for youth. Steps will be taken to increase the
relative share of youth representation at the provincial council and parliamentary levels as well.
 In order to create an economy that is driven by young entrepreneurs, extensive opportunities and incentives will be provided for youthful entrepreneurs in all sectors of the economy.
 'Youth Entrepreneur Counselling Centres' will be established under the Ministry of Youth Affairs to provide integrated services in entrepreneurial learning, identifying business opportunities, resolving business issues and identifying and expanding market opportunities.
 Measures will be taken by the Ministry of Science and Technology to support and develop innovative businesses by transferring modern technology for product and technology innovation.
 The key issue faced by young entrepreneurs is the lack of investment for businesses. As a solution, a 'National Youth Fund' will be established. An initial seed allocation of Rs 1,000 million will be provided by the General Treasury. The Fund will be augmented through a 'Youth Development Lottery'.
 A simple loan scheme will be introduced under this Fund to provide the required investment for youth entrepreneurs.
 A Youth Human Resource Data Bank will be established to provide employers with information regarding youth eligible for public and private sector employment as well as for foreign employment. This will enable young persons to upload their curriculum vitae to this data bank. The data bank will have provision to be regularly updated.
 Amendments will be introduced to revise the mandatory qualification for the lowest grades of the public sector from the current requirement of the GCE Ordinary Level examination.




 An Easy Payment Scheme will be introduced for youth to purchase smart phones, tablets or laptop computers.
 An interest free loan of up to Rs one million will be provided to youth to finance their higher education, which can be repaid during employment.

Sports for a Vibrant Youth
Sport is the language of youth. Our aim is to create a generation of youth who are energetic, healthy and disciplined.

 The first period of two school days per week will be allocated for physical exercise.
 A programme will be launched to identify school children who excel in sports and to provide them with nutrition, training and other facilities.
 A Sports University of international standard will be established.
 This University will have affiliated Sports University Colleges established in each of the nine provinces.
 Students who have sat the GCE Ordinary or Advanced Level and have excelled in sports at district and provincial levels will be enrolled for diploma programmes.
 Such diploma holders as well as those who pass the GCE Advanced Level and excel at the national or international level will be enlisted by the Sports University for degree programmes.
 Each provincial Sports University College will have an international level stadium which could be used by all sportsmen and sportswomen in the province.
 A special programme will be introduced to develop the professions of coaches, trainers and physiotherapists required for the development of sports.
 An incentive scheme will be introduced to enable professional sportsmen and sportswomen to obtain foreign education and training. Foreign trainers will be provided to those who perform at international standard.
 Tax concessions will be provided for imported sports goods, technical equipment and nutritional supplements.
 The Sports Ministry will sponsor international sports events in Sri Lanka.

An Informed and Knowledgeable Child Population
Children are Sri Lanka's future. The nation's future and pride depend on how we guide them to be healthy and productive citizens; they must be non-discriminatory towards races, ethnicities, religions, creeds, and castes other than their own. The following measures will be implemented to achieve this aim:

 We will uphold and fulfill the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
 A special child nutrition programme will be introduced to address undernutrition within the next five years. Such children will be provided with the medically recommended amounts of Triposha without disruption. In addition, financial assistance programs for pregnant mothers will be implemented.
 The children of families living in poverty will be provided with a child nutrition allowance under the Divineguma Programme, and in addition they will be supported to reach their full potential.
 A programme will be established with the Ministries of Justice, Child and Women Affairs and Defence as well as all related state agencies to address all forms of exploitation, abuse and violence against children.
 A programme will be put in place to prevent abuse, violence and exploitation of children at pre-schools, day-care centres and schools.
 Each District Court will have a dedicated section to resolve court cases pertaining to children without delay.
 The complex system of child adoption will be simplified and all efforts will be taken to prevent children from being abandoned or killed.
 A national programme will be established to introduce a 'foster family system' for all children in Child Care and Development Centres/Institutions.





The Economic and Social Contribution of Women
Women play a critical role in child care, the well-being of the family and in the social, political and economic development of the country. We believe that citizens, families, communities and societies are shaped through the guidance and nurturing of women. Therefore, harnessing the contribution of women is vital to our short and long term development plans. We will assign high priority to increasing the labour force participation of women and to promoting women entrepreneurs. We will build on the high levels of literacy and education of women in Sri Lanka to not only provide opportunities for women to be
equal partners in development but also to harness their skills to prepare the next generation to face the challenges ahead.

 As child bearing and child rearing limits the participation of women in the labour force, we will regulate, standardize and expand child care facilities for mothers who go out to work.
 As young children need the love and care of their mother, a system will be put in place for young mothers to take time out from work temporarily and re-join the work force when they are able to do so.
 A programme will be put in place to train women for high demand and globally competitive professions such as nursing.
 We will establish and expand financial and business development services for rural women to start their own businesses and cottage industries so that they generate an income through home-based enterprise rather than engaging in employment away from home.
 Sexual and Gender Based Violence has increased in our country. This is experienced by women in public transport and in society in general. We will create a society that respects women, and aspires to the highest moral and ethical standards to protect girls and women.
 A separate unit will be set up within the Police Commission to take swift disciplinary action against officers who do not adhere to the standards and principles of gender equality.
 A mechanism will be put in place for women to be able to report violence or harassment to the nearest Police Station through their mobile phones.
 A 24-hour emotional support and advisory help line will be established under the Ministry of Women and Children's Affairs so that women can contact the centre for support and help.

Differently Abled and Disabled People
We respect the rights of differently abled and disabled people. We are committed to their economic, and social security rights and recognize that they need equal opportunities to improve their quality of life. The following steps will be taken in this regard:

 Steps will be taken to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
 A system will be introduced to address the difficulties encountered by those with disabilities in accessing education, in learning and in sitting for examinations in schools, universities, and other educational institutions.
 A programme will be introduced to train more sign language translators to meet the present shortfall.
 Call centres will be established with appropriate means and modes of communication for those with disabilities including a mobile application and electronic language systems.
 The responsibility for disabled people currently lies with the Ministry of Social Services. This will be assigned to a separate authority with the participation of disabled people themselves.
 Updated training programmes will be introduced for those with disabilities, and the circulars related to employment in the Provincial Councils and the private sector will be implemented.
 A tax relief package will be introduced for entertainment targeting those with disabilities, especially cinema and drama.
 Taxes currently in place for foreign aid and grants aimed at the welfare of disabled people will be abolished.
 It will be made compulsory for all television media to use sign language at least during their news telecast.




A Society with Respected Senior Citizens
As Sri Lanka's elderly population is increasing, the country will be faced with several social and economic challenges. Sri Lankan culture assigns high priority for the care of the elderly
by the family and this is legally sanctioned. However, caring for the elderly is fast becoming a complex social issue. A majority of the elderly are not eligible for pensions or insurance cover. Changes in family structures towards nuclear families, migration to urban areas and abroad, reluctance of the elderly to migrate with their children, dual earning households and financial limitations of poor households for extended elderly care necessitates state intervention. Providing welfare measures for the elderly to live with dignity will therefore be a priority.

 The National Policy for Senior Citizens in Sri Lanka will be reviewed and steps would be taken to implement the same.
 The five-year plan to overcome challenges during old age will be structured and implemented effectively.
 A 'Voluntary Service Task Force' will be set up with the objective of engaging senior citizens for soft skills
development projects and, for the sharing of their knowledge and experience with the future generation.
 A programme will be implemented in collaboration with the private sector to train and support senior citizens who wish to improve their livelihoods.
 The Rs.100/- deducted from the elderly assistance programme will be added back to the existing Rs. 2,000/- and the monthly allowance will be increased to Rs. 2,500/-.
 A subsidy scheme will be put in place for senior citizens above 65 years of age to purchase prescribed medicines.
 The responsibility of preparing a mechanism for senior citizens to obtain a full medical examination/test every six months will be assigned to the Ministry of Health.
 Standards will be established and implemented at Homes for the Elderly and Aged, in order to ensure the safety and comfort of the elderly; the existing Homes for the Elderly and Aged will be modernised to meet these standards.
 The government allocation towards Homes for the Elderly and Aged will be increased.
 Government assistance will be provided for the private sector to open Homes for the Elderly as a business operation, but adhering to the specified standards.
 Low interest loans will be made available for senior citizens to go on pilgrimages to places of worship abroad according to the religion they practice (such as Bodhgaya, the Vatican and Mecca).

A Culture of "Working for the Country"
The dynamism of a country's economy depends on its labour force. A country's development depends on its productivity.
Therefore, a trained, energetic workforce with a 'culture of working for the country' will be fostered to achieve the
envisaged accelerated development goals. Our aspiration is to create a worker who works hard and lives a richer life.

Towards a People-Centred Public Service
 A 'Long-term Human Resource Plan' will be developed to enhance the productivity and efficiency of the public service. The numbers required for an efficient service, the structure and distribution of staff, and the work allocation of the staff will be included in this plan.
 A 'Long-term Succession Plan' will be prepared to ensure continuity in the public service.
 A new 'Code of Ethics' will be introduced to ensure an independent public service.
 The age of retirement of public and private sector employees will be determined following international practice, according to a system based on life expectancy at birth.
 An insurance scheme will be introduced for public and private sector employees who become unemployed so that they will receive support until they are employed once again.
 The employer's contribution to the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) for employees of the public and private sector will be increased to 15% from the existing 12% in order to increase the employee's savings in the fund.
 New legislation will be introduced to make it compulsory for an employer of the public or private sector to pay the
salary of the employee to the widow until the retirement age of the employee if the employee's death takes place while in service and the employee is a member of the Employees Provident Fund.
 A programme will be introduced to facilitate the training of public service personnel locally as well as outside the
country so as to enhance the efficiency of the public service.
 Service minutes will be introduced in relation to graduate development officers, agriculture research and production assistants and similar service categories.
 Legal provisions will be put in place to indemnify officers of government departments, semi-government public corporations and banks who carry out their duties in good faith.
 A separate commission will be set up to remove salary anomalies in the public sector.





 Pension benefits will be granted to public servants who have been deprived of such benefits.
 A mechanism will be implemented to increase the salaries of public servants in line with the increasing cost of living.
 A mechanism similar to the arbitration system for labour disputes currently in place in the private sector will be introduced to the public sector as well.
 A healthcare allowance will be given to lower grades of employees in the public service including the local government service.


The Retired Community
 Pension anomalies in the public service including the armed forces will be eliminated. A methodology will be explored to provide the cost of living allowance to pensioners as well.
 The payment of the widow's and orphan's pensions to those who are eligible will be expedited.

Public Corporations, Semi Government Institutions and Banks
 The salary increase of Rs. 2,500/- paid to the public servants will be paid to employees of the semi government sector as well.
 The Shop and Office Act will be amended to ensure the welfare of employees
 A special contributory pension scheme will be introduced in addition to the Employees Provident Fund.
 Taxes on the retirement gratuity will be reduced from 24% to 15%.
 The income tax of employees in these sectors will be reduced to the level that existed in 2014.
 The pension given to former state bank employees will be given to new state bank employees, and the pension benefit will also be granted to bank employees who are currently not eligible for this benefit.
 A contributory insurance scheme will be introduced to public corporations and institutions to cover critical illnesses at least during the early stages where there are no medical insurance schemes at the institutional level.

The Private Sector
 Private sector workers' existing minimum wage of Rs. 10,000/- will be increased by Rs. 2,500/-.
 All legislation that the current government is attempting to enact will be reviewed with the involvement of the work force and labour unions. Steps will be taken to consolidate the various social protection schemes that are in existence at present.
 It will be made mandatory to report the recruitment of new employees to the Department of Labour within one week. This will prevent the evasion of EPF contributions and will secure the labour rights and welfare of the worker.
 The Workmen's Compensation Ordinance No.19 of 1934 will be amended to increase compensation payments for employees.
 The Industrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950 will be amended to bring in legal provisions to expedite disciplinary procedures.
 The security of the Employee's Provident Fund will be strengthened to protect member benefits, and action will be taken to bring those responsible for the maladministration of the Fund to justice and to recover losses.
 Further improvements will be introduced to the loan schemes from the EPF and the withdrawal of funds by those above the age of 55, by introducing internet banking to credit funds to member accounts
 An accelerated programme will be implemented to ensure payment of EPF benefits to those who have been in short term employment, those who have changed jobs frequently, those who have not informed the EPF of changes of address, and to those whose information is incomplete.
 A contributory pension scheme will be introduced in addition to the EPF.
 A consolidated mechanism will be established with the involvement of worker welfare societies, factory owners and the Board of Investment to identify and fulfill the health, nutrition and other welfare requirements of workers in the free trade zones.
 A state awards festival "Lak Vyawasayaka Harasara" will be held annually to reward private sector organisations based on selected performance indicators which include their annual contribution to employment generation, wages and benefits given to employees.




Workforce in Foreign Employment
Sri Lanka's migrant workforce plays a key role in the economy through their remittances from abroad. In 2018, migrant remittances accounted for 8% of Sri Lanka's GDP. The future government will pay special attention to migrant workers as well as Sri Lankans domiciled abroad.

 Workers' remittances as well as the earnings of Sri Lankans domiciled abroad will be exempt from income taxes and the saving of such foreign exchange earnings in foreign currency bank accounts will be made tax free.
 Special facilities including tax concessions will be provided to attract the foreign exchange earnings of migrants and Sri Lankans living abroad into investments in Sri Lanka.
 A special loan scheme will be introduced to enable those who return to Sri Lanka after foreign employment to commence tax-exempt enterprises.
 A duty free vehicle permit will be provided for migrant workers and Sri Lankans abroad who have remitted US dollars 50,000 annually continuously for a period of 10 years.
 A contributory pension scheme will be introduced for migrant workers who have been in employment abroad for a period of over 6 years.
 A programme will be introduced to send skilled workers instead of unskilled female workers to the Middle East.
 Our embassies in the Middle East will be made to bear greater responsibilities in protecting Sri Lankan housemaids working in those countries.
 Legal reforms will be introduced to strengthen the process of obtaining compensation for victims of accidents in workplaces abroad.
 A system will be introduced through the Foreign Employment Bureau to provide housing free of charge or a similar benefit for workers who become permanently disabled due to an accident in their workplace abroad.
 Easy payment schemes will be introduced for migrant workers and Sri Lankans resident abroad to purchase houses in new housing complexes in Sri Lanka.

Private Security Services
 A mechanism will be introduced to pay a maximum certified payment for a shift and a special allowance for night shifts in relation to private security services.
 An insurance scheme will be introduced for all private security personnel.
 Training will be provided to engage in private security services abroad.
 A Unit will be established within the Ministry of Defence to oversee matters related to private security services.


A Comfortable Home for Each Family
While adequate housing is a basic need, the reality is that most families cannot afford housing. During our tenure in government we recognized this as a pressing issue for low income urban communities and took steps to provide them with permanent housing. We thereby changed the living conditions and lifestyles of the urban poor. Once in office we will continue the urban regeneration programme and also extend it to the rural communities.

 Houses will be provided to those in need through easy payment plans based on the income of the purchaser in housing complexes, built under public-private partnership arrangements.
 Land will be provided at reasonable prices for housing construction companies so as to encourage investors to build reasonably priced apartments for middle-income earners.
 Special housing projects under public private partnership Arrangements will be implemented island wide to enable young couples to purchase a house from an urban area on long-term easy payment plans.




 A multi-storey housing complex scheme will be introduced under a public private partnership for those who require temporary accommodation at a reasonable rent.
 New multi-storey housing complexes will be built island-wide to replace old blocks of flats that are beyond repair.
 A programme will be implemented island wide, to provide houses from housing schemes for displaced persons and those living in shanties.
 The interest paid on loans obtained to build the first house of public and private sector employees will be considered an expense in paying income taxes.
 Housing schemes with all facilities will be constructed in rural agricultural areas where the land to build houses is limited, thereby protecting the land available for agriculture while creating an environment for comfortable living.
 Banks and other public institutions providing loans exclusively to the housing sector will be merged into one Housing Bank and a mechanism will be put in place to provide low interest loans through this bank.



















































People-centric Economy



Our aim is to develop a national economic policy for the benefit of the present and future generations whereby the people will be the owners of the country's economic resources, local enterprise
will be strengthened and vital national assets would not be sold to foreigners.
2020-2025: Macroeconomic Targets
New Tax Policy
Having carefully examined the global conditions and the present state of different socio-economic sectors, we have been able to identify the essential structural changes to be carried out in each of these sectors. The following are a few macroeconomic targets we plan to reach during 2020-25:

 To achieve an average rate of economic growth of 6.5 percent or higher.
 Per capita income exceeding USD 6500.
The prevailing tax system has contributed to the collapse of the domestic economy by entirely discouraging domestic entrepreneur. We would, instead, introduce a tax system that would help promote production in the country.
 The rate of unemployment at less than 4 percent.
Cost of Living
What has to be done about the cost of living is to cease giving false promises to people and to try to understand the prevailing
reality in this regard. Speedy implementation of our economic policies and
the immediate impacts of proposed tax reductions will help reduce the cost of living.
 The rate of annual inflation not exceeding 5 percent.

 Budget deficit at less than 4% percent of GDP

 A single digit rate of interest

 To maintain the exchange value of the rupee at a
stable level.





Export Crops

It is the export crops dominated by tea, rubber and coconut which kept Sri Lanka known in international markets over an extended period of time. The country ought to keep its international export business going in the future through various value added products backed up by new technologies.
Agriculture to be Developed Through Advanced Technology
Our agricultural policy would be to promote an agricultural sector in which small producers using small extents of land producing high quality outputs using modern technological methods.

















A People-centric Economy
Our aim is to develop a national economic policy and to pass it on to present and future generations. The incumbent regime has failed to do this for the country. In this national economic policy, people of the country will be made the owners of the country's economic resources. The economic practice under that policy will be people-centred. There will be no transfer of
key resources and strategic economic centres of the country to foreign ownership. Domestic entrepreneurs will be strengthened under our national economic policy.

2020-2025: Macroeconomic Targets
Having carefully examined the global conditions and the present state of different socio-economic sectors, we have been able
to identify the essential structural changes to be carried out in each of these sectors. The following are a few macroeconomic targets we plan to reach during 2020-25:

 To achieve an average rate of economic growth of 6.5 percent or higher.
 Per capita income exceeding USD 6500.
 The rate of unemployment at less than 4 percent.
 The rate of annual inflation not exceeding 5 percent.
 Budget deficit at less than 4% percent of GDP
 A single digit rate of interest
 To maintain the exchange value of the rupee at a stable level.

Macroeconomic Policy Framework
 Total volume of foreign loans the present government has raised to achieve various political objectives, to advance personal agendas, and for day-to-day expenses is equal to the total foreign loans Sri Lanka has raised from 1948, the year of independence, to 2014. The debt trap we will
thus inherit from the present regime may compel us to raise foreign loans to an extent just sufficient for developmental tasks. We will take steps to manage the problems of foreign indebtedness through measures such as promoting domestic investments, reducing import expenditures and raising export incomes.
 Government budget deficit today has reached 7 percent of GDP. In order to reduce it systematically to 4 percent, we will eliminate all unnecessary government expenditures, while continuing to finance essential expenditures and prioritised state investments.
 Trade deficit today exceeds USD 10 Billion. This will be reduced to a level the country can afford to maintain. We would abandon the economy based on foreign loans, and will instead develop the economy by promoting on domestic resource based exports and efficient import substitution activities.
 
Intermediate goods imported for use in domestic production processes are today taxed at rates higher than the rates charged for the imports of relevant finished goods. In order to promote domestic production therefore, we will take steps to reduce import taxes on raw materials and intermediate goods.
 In order to facilitate development of internationally competitive industries, both for import substitution and exportation, imports of necessary machinery and technical equipment will be allowed into the country free of import tariff.
 Procurements, construction activities and investments of the government will be open to the domestic entrepreneurs on prioritised basis, thereby making state sector expenditures sources of income for domestic industry and other businesses.
 A programme of action will be implemented to provide maximum possible relief to those who have deposits with failed private financial companies. Action will be taken to stabilise the high risk financial institutions using the liquidity fund with the Central Bank.
 Steps will be taken during the next decade to shift the country's export economy to valued-added industries.
 Food security of the country will be ensured so that no food shortage will ever rise in the future.
 A social enterprise development centre will be established to promote the expansion of social enterprise in the country.
Social enterprises are modernised enterprises which resolve various socio-economic problems through the very processes of their goods and services production activities.

Emergency Relief Plan
The people and local ventures who are suffering from current government's economic policies will receive a relief as soon as our government comes to rule. A new people oriented strategy on economy will be established focusing on reducing the cost of living and taxes imposed.

New Tax Policy
The prevailing tax system has contributed to the collapse of the domestic economy by entirely discouraging domestic entrepreneur. We would, instead, introduce a tax system that would help promote production in the country.

The current Inland Revenue Act will be replaced by a new tax law. A new tax payer friendly simple tax system will be





introduced so that it will remain active for several years, without changing haphazardly and frequently. Under this new tax system:

 Income tax on productive enterprises will be reduced from 28 to 18 percent.
 The Economic Service Charge (ESC) and Withholding Tax (WHT) will be scrapped.
 A simple value added tax of 8 percent will be introduced replacing both the current VAT of 15 percent and the Nation Building Tax (NBT) of 2 per cent.
 PAYE tax will be scrapped and personal income tax will be subject to a ceiling of 15 percent.
 A five year moratorium will be granted on taxes payable by agriculturists and small and medium enterprises.
 Various taxes that contribute to the inefficiency, irregularities, corruption and lack of transparency of the tax system will be abandoned. Instead a special tax will be introduced for different categories of goods and services.
 Import tariff on goods competing with domestically produced substitutes will be raised.
 A simple taxation system will be introduced to cover annual vehicle registrations and charges for relevant annual services, replacing the cumbersome systems that prevail now.
 Various taxes imposed on religious institutions will be scrapped.
 A zero VAT scheme will be adopted in the case of businesses providing services to Tourist hotels and tourists, if they purchase over 60% of the food raw materials, cloths and other consumer items locally.
 Service charges levied on telephones and Internet will be reduced by 50%.
 Special promotional schemes will be implemented to encourage foreign investments.
 A tax free package will be introduced to promote investment in identified subject areas.
 A clear and uncomplicated system of taxing will be in place with the use of internet facilities, special software and other technological services.
 Information Technology (IT) services will be totally free from taxes (Zero Tax), considering said industry as a major force in the national manufacturing process.
 All the Sri Lankans and Foreigners, who bring Foreign exchange to Sri Lanka through consultancy services are excepted from income tax.

Cost of Living
What has to be done about the cost of living is to cease giving false promises to people and to try to understand the prevailing reality in this regard. Speedy implementation of our economic policies and the immediate impacts of proposed tax reductions will help reduce the cost of living.

 Action will be taken to stabilise the reduction of prices of essential commodities resulting from the reduction in taxes;
 Steps will be taken to abolish agreements entered into by the present government to purchase electricity at exorbitant costs and the advantages accrued out of such action will be passed on to the consumer through a reduced electricity bill as well as a reduced water bill;
 Elimination of the fuel price formula currently in operation;
 Withholding taxes on savings deposits held by the retired and/or senior citizens and children will be scrapped;
 A system to help people celebrate the festivals related to their religion and /or ethnicity will be introduced by
introducing a system of non-deduction of loan instalments in any one of festival months per family - month of Sinhala- Tamil Aluth Awurudda, Christmas or Ramzan months. This will be worked out in such a way as not to change the total number of loan instalments.
 A programme of action will be introduced to help the poor people out of distress due to any natural and other disasters caused by - unemployment, loss of income sources, sickness and other disasters, crop losses due to wild animals, drought and floods, climatic change, addiction to alcohol and other substances, losses of life, houses, and property due to natural disasters and other reasons.
 Action to expand livelihoods in economic activity areas in rural and urban environments where programmes aimed at poverty alleviation are widely operative.
 Subsidised price vouchers to be distributed among needy school children to buy school uniforms, footwear, and school bags. A programme will be implemented also to improve children's nutrition by providing a nutritious food ration in school.




A New System of Banking
In order to make a rapid leap forward in economic terms, Sri Lanka ought to develop a strong production economy. We will introduce and develop a banking system that will encourage economic fields such as import-export trade, construction industry, small and medium scale enterprises, and agriculture through long-term loans at concessionary interest rates. This initiative will be implemented through a newly established 'National Development Bank.'

Capital Market Reforms
The key critical action needed to rejuvenate the Colombo stock market is to regenerate investor confidence in it. Investors
are ensured that we have a practical programme of action to achieve this. A few steps that will be undertaken towards this objective are briefly listed below:

 Demutualisation of the Colombo stock market;
 Adoption of new systems in matters such as the conditions to be fulfilled in listing of companies in the stock exchange;
 In order to eliminate the negative attitudes, the investors and general public have about the stock market, its operational culture ought to be made more ethical. For this, we will make the regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission more effective. We will also take effective legal action against corrupt practices in relation to stock market operations;
 We will review and reform the rules and regulations governing the market in government bonds and securities and will also reconsider the desirability of the 10 per cent limit imposed on foreign buying of such bonds;
 The primary market activities in treasury bills and bonds will be further expanded and regulated.

Inclusive Development Indicator Approach
Although we have achieved extensive results from outdated approaches and strategies of national economic development, considering the time we have taken to achieve these results, we cannot be totally satisfied with those results. The majority of our population has failed to stabilise their family economies. Family incomes have failed to grow relative to required family expenditures. Excessive income inequality has persisted. We have to change these conditions and bring about prosperity for all. As a progressive approach to development, we therefore propose an Inclusive Development Indicator Approach to be implemented under our future government.

Agriculture to be Developed through Advanced Technology
We will adopt an agricultural policy in which not only people will be dissuaded from abandoning agriculture, but also promote and encourage those in other employment pursuits to come into agriculture. Agriculture will thus be made an attractive profession. Our agricultural policy would be to promote an agricultural sector in which small producers using small
extents of land producing high quality outputs using modern technological methods. Overall production costs involved in this production processes would be low and competitive.
Instead of a policy that changes from one season to another, a new national agricultural policy would be introduced after an in-depth review of the present policies. The contribution of agriculture to GDP could easily improve under such an agricultural policy package. The opportunity of increasing the consumption of organic agri-products will be thus opened up for the people at large. Some of our policies within the agriculture domain are briefly listed below:

 Reestablishment of the pension scheme for farmers.
 Introduction of a system of agricultural insurance in which the methods of joining will be simple and benefits passing on to the farming community will be quick and attractive.
 To finish within six months, the disbursement of compensation payments due to the farming community on account of cultivation losses they have undergone in the past.
 A methodology to be developed speedily to bring into productive use the lands that could be cultivated profitably but are not being done so now, for a variety of reasons.
 An integrated soil fertility management system will be introduced and it will be disseminated to farmers within a year via the agrarian officers operating throughout the country.
 The farming community is compelled to suffer huge losses during the harvesting season because of the seasonal glut in supply. This aggravates their indebtedness. In order to
prevent this, an agricultural crop management system will be introduced and implemented.
 Our objective is to go beyond traditional agricultural practices and to develop high technology agriculture. Environment friendly green house agriculture, hydroponics agriculture, and aquaponics agriculture will be popularised and a community of youthful agricultural entrepreneurs will be built up. In order to promote the youth to take up these agri-business activities, the government will help them using import tariff benefits and low interest loan schemes.





 Systems to economise the use of water - e.g. drip irrigation and sprinkler systems - will be spread among the farming community through the Agrarian Services department.
 In order to save on fuel usage for above type of activities, tax free importation of solar powered water pumps and solar cells will be allowed.
 The average farmer has fallen into a debt trap due to informal lenders and high interest micro-credit systems.
In order to free farmers from this debt trap, a simple low interest agricultural credit scheme will be established with all banks, both state-owned and private, compelled to join the scheme.
 A new crop insurance scheme will be introduced to insure crops easily and also to be compensated without any delay.
 To build up a youthful class of agricultural entrepreneurs during the next ten years, the following will be made available to the target youth - modern agro-technological knowledge, knowledge in methods of farming, methods of stabilising agricultural incomes, marketing strategies, easy credit facilities and tax benefits.
 To gain the most from high technology agriculture we need large-scale farming systems. To promote this, a cooperative farm produce methodology will be developed at the regional level, providing for the purpose, technical assistance, infrastructure and investment facilities.
 We will develop systems to promote cultivation and production of dried chillies, maize, soya, green grams and cowpea, onions and potatoes. By enabling the substitution of their imports with domestic production, we will achieve a foreign exchange saving of about USD 500 million.
 The farming community in the Northern Province, with conducive geographical and cultural environment, enjoy special advantage in the production of consumer goods such as milk, eggs, animal and fish products, vegetables and fruits. By promoting the production of these consumer goods we would convert millions of dollars now spent on imports of these products into incomes of these farmers.
 By increasing domestic animal feed production, we will save millions of foreign exchange presently used to import these items into the country.

A Revolution in the Use of Fertilizer
Building up a community of citizens who are healthy and productive, we need to develop the habit of consuming food with no contamination with harmful chemicals. In order to guarantee the people's right to such safe food, the entire Sri Lankan agriculture will be promoted to use organic fertilizers during the next ten years. For this, production of organic fertilizer will be accelerated.

 To resuscitate the farming community, we need to replace the existing fertilizer subsidy scheme with an alternative system. In the new system, the inorganic and organic fertilizer both will be provided free of charge to farmers. They will be promoted to shift gradually into a complete system using entirely carbonic fertilizer.
 A system of assistance will be introduced to convert traditional farming villages into users of only organic fertilizer.
 A programme to develop 2 million home gardens using organic fertilizer will be initiated in order to promote, at the household level, consumption of organic vegetables and fruits in the country.
 A programme will be initiated to produce all essential fertilizers domestically.
 Using the forests and wetlands in the country, production of bio-fertilizer and organic fertilizer of high standard will be promoted.
 We will initiate a proper waste management system in the country. Waste would thus be used to produce organic fertilizer to international standard.

Production of Seeds and Planting Material
For the anticipated expansion of agricultural production in the next few years steps must be initiated by adequate seed and planting material production. Energies and capacities of all agricultural faculties of our universities, state agricultural
research institutes and private sector facilities will be garnered to achieve this outcome.

 A new methodology to produce quality seeds of international standards will be introduced. This 'domestic seeds policy' will enable small and medium scale farmers in the country to contribute towards quality seed production.
 A standards certificate from the Sri Lanka Standards Institute will be made compulsory for seed to be imported into the country.




 Private sector will be promoted to produce quality planting material on a large scale using technologies of tissue culture and grafting.
 A seeds bank under the Ministry of Agriculture will be established to ensure seed safety.

Packaging and Storage
 Small and medium enterprises will be promoted to move into areas of adding value to and processing agricultural produce. For this purpose, tax free importation of necessary machinery and equipment will be allowed.
 Necessary facilities to store surplus production will be created through government intervention.
 The government will identify locations to build up large scale storage facilities for agricultural produce and intervene to build up those facilities. This will enable the domestic farmers and producers to export value-added products instead of exporting commodities in raw form.

Marketing and Transport
 Systems of pre-contracts among direct producer, export companies, packaging firms and wholesalers will be promoted.
 A new strategic plan for product marketing will be set up facilitating branding of agricultural products for export and packaging and geographical location certification systems.
 There will be controls exercised over importation of agricultural products so that reasonable stability in prices of relevant product categories could be maintained. Our intention will be to make the country self-sufficient in the relevant products.
 An internationally accepted organic product certification system will be introduced and agricultural imports will be subject to securing necessary certification. The responsibility for these actions will be placed on Sri Lanka Standards Institute. The technical standards of this institute will be improved to be able to undertake this expanded role.
 A programme of action combining the state and private sector institutions will be introduced to minimise wastage of products in harvesting, transport and delivery.
 New secure railway coaches will be introduced to expand the role of the railways in goods transport. Corresponding improvements to railway infrastructure will be carried out.

Research for Agricultural Innovation
 A specific proportion of the annual Agricultural Ministry vote will be made available to universities and other relevant institutions to provide research facilities required by agricultural scientists and researchers to develop high yielding seeds, that are disease resistant and retain
traditional product quality, and to develop new cultivation methods and to innovate in technological machinery and instruments.
 Domestic or foreign investors will be introduced to produce innovative products under trade names.
 State assistance will be provided to develop innovative
bio-pesticides and a low cost integrated pest management system in order to minimise the use of chemical pesticides.
 A patent system will be established so that the researchers could patent their innovations.
 The agricultural colleges in operation today, established to expand and promote agricultural education, will be strengthened with expanded technological facilities and
facilities available in those colleges would be developed for the benefit of those who study there.
 Diplomatic relations will be developed to facilitate domestic institutions involved in agricultural research to collaborate with international research bodies.
 Tax relief will be provided to private enterprises contributing to agricultural research in order to compensate for the research expenses they incur.

Immediate Action to Help Paddy Farmers
Paddy farming in rural Sri Lanka is not just a livelihood. It is also part of their culture. It is a symbol of their dignity. Our agricultural policy package will help the paddy farmers to achieve prosperous living by the time of next year's paddy harvesting times.

 In order to protect domestic farmer, different guaranteed prices will be set up for a kilogram of different varieties of paddy: Rs. 52/- for nadu, Rs. 57/- for samba, and Rs. 63/- for keeri samba.
 Farmers should get a reasonable and stable price for their paddy output. For this the role of the Paddy Marketing Board will be expanded; paddy will be purchase without delay; transport facilities will be improved; and modern measurement techniques will be adopted.





Export Crops
It is the export crops dominated by tea, rubber and coconut which kept Sri Lanka known in international markets over an extended period of time. The country ought to keep its
international export business going in the future through various value added products backed up by new technologies. Our plan to achieve this would involve the following:

 Subsidies and guaranteed price schemes.
 Subsidised fertilizer to small and medium enterprises engaged in export crop production
 Subsidised loan schemes to promote replanting of old plantations.
 Introduction of an internationally accepted product quality inspection system and a system of geographical information certificates.
 Prohibition of the break-up of tea, rubber and coconut plantations to permit human settlements.

Tea
 Introduction of methods to maintain and improve the quality of Sri Lankan tea.
 Promotion of our tea in international markets as pure Ceylon Tea.
 Discourage export of tea in bulk and encourage tea export in value added form. This is expected to double the revenues from tea in the next decade.
 A collaborative effort by both public and private sectors will be made to re-capture Sri Lanka's lost tea markets.
 State encouragement to promote cultivation of organic tea.
 Tea Research Institute will be restructured and developed to provide solutions to the problems of productivity and crop quality in tea plantations and to help introduce new technology there.

Rubber
 New rubber varieties capable of yielding at shorter time periods from planting will be introduced (e.g. high yielding varieties developed through cloning) will be introduced, gradually replacing the existing trees. A new programme will be introduced to safeguard producers and to increase the rubber crop.
 Rubber will be sold more in value added forms. Required technological knowledge and practices will be expanded. Researchers, scientists and producers will be encouraged to undertake the research needed in the implementation of the above.
 State patronage will be provided to strengthen the associations of small and medium scale planters.

Coconut
 Bio technical solutions will be developed through government support to control the various pests affecting the coconut plantations.
 Machines for plucking coconuts will be produced and their use expanded.
 Facilities will be provided to Coconut Research Institute and private laboratories to develop high yielding plants.
 Research will be promoted to develop coconut varieties that are suitable for the northern, eastern and southern regions where coconut is not widely grown.
 Small and medium coconut growers will be encouraged to develop nurseries to produce planting material.
 Subsidiary crops (e.g. pepper, ginger, turmeric and aloe- vera) in coconut plantations will be promoted to enable coconut growers to increase their incomes.
 High yielding hybrid coconut varieties will be distributed among people to expand coconut growing in home gardens.




Other Export Crops
The principal challenge the domestic planters of minor export crops have faced over the recent past was the importation
of the relevant crops into the country for re-export purposes, thereby leading to collapse of prices received by domestic producers. We will take prompt action to ban the import and re-export of these commodities.

Cinnamon
 Sri Lankan cinnamon has a high reputation in the international market for its high quality. Sri Lanka can expand the export of cinnamon using the reputation the local product has in the market. Facilities will be provided to cultivators to undertake cinnamon growing for export.
 The attention of the Innovative Products Authority will be drawn for the need to develop new technological methods for extraction and packaging of cinnamon. Imports of such high technology equipment will be made free of import tariff.
 In order to make cinnamon extraction and preparation a respectable job, a technical training course will be developed at a suitable NVQ level.
 A cinnamon extraction and preparation centre for the use of owners of plantations of less than five acres will be established.
 Assistance schemes will be initiated to support cinnamon- related value added industries.

Pepper
 A programme to provide technical support to pepper producers will be speedily commenced.
 High tariffs will be imposed on pepper imports in order to restrict the importation of pepper from other countries for re-export purposes.
 Low interest subsidised loan scheme will be initiated to help pepper growers obtain the required equipment and technical instructions to improve pepper preparation.
 A series of export villages will be established in Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Puttalam, Monaragala and Hambantota for growing pepper both for domestic use and export.
 Financial support and required assistance will be provided to cultivate products like aloe vera and ginger aiming at foreign markets.
 State sponsorship will be available for all export crop development and market expansion work.

Strengthening the Fisheries Sector
Sri Lanka enjoys rights over 500,000 Sq. Kilometres of sea area. Its coast extends up to 1,700 km. Internally, there are many rivers and water bodies. We have the resources to soon be able to achieve self-sufficiency in fishery products. We have developed a fisheries development plan that should enable us to achieve multiple objectives: nutrition for the people, food security, foreign exchange earnings, employment and livelihood opportunities, poverty alleviation, and large contribution to the national and the rural economy.

 Introduction of scientific methods to increase fish population in our coastal areas, and to improve the environmental conditions in our lagoons.
 Modernisation of all existing fishery harbours and construction of new fishery harbours if needed, to enable entry for large-scale and multi-day fishing craft.
 Development of the fishery harbour in Oluvil into one with facilities for operation of large-scale boats.
 Action to be taken to develop refrigeration systems using sea water for multi-day fishing craft and to encourage the use of solar power in such equipment.
 The acquisition of a number of advanced multi-day fishing boats equipped with modern technical and
operational facilities to identify areas in deep sea with large concentrations of fish to enable domestic fishing companies to expand fishing in international seas.
 Development of facilities to construct large multi-day fishing craft and for maintenance of such craft in an area close to the Trincomalee harbour.
 Build-up of all fishery harbours, jetties and places where caught fish is unloaded into centres equipped with modern communication facilities, and refrigeration, fuel supply and sanitation facilities.
 Commencement of an interest free loan scheme through the Ministry of Fisheries to enable fishing industry workers to bring their catch safely to the coast, and for safe unloading,
transport and refrigerated storage of the fish brought to land.
 Provision of low interest loans, tax benefits and insurance cover facilities, and consultancy and market coordination assistance to promote expansion and development of fish population in internal water bodies, and cultivation
of shellfish like prawns and oyster, sea urchins and sea cucumber, and aquarium fish, etc.





 Provision of facilities in terms of land, investment funds, and technical assistance to private companies and entrepreneurs to expand production of canned fish.
 Development of a programme to involve women in fishery- related household industry through fishery cooperatives.
 Strengthening of the navy and coastal patrol units and development of a conflict settlement agreements with India, in order to eliminate unauthorised fishing in northern and eastern seas.
 A broad based programme to be commenced jointly by the fisheries community associations and the National Aquaculture Development Authority for the expanded breeding of both sea and fresh water fish.
 Introduction of a productive insurance scheme for the fishing community.
 Implementation of a programme of technical and managerial training in fishery activities for the youth using facilities in the Ocean University with the intention of development of a class of entrepreneurs in fishing industry.
 Development of systems of pricing of fish products so that both producer and consumer achieve a fair deal, using the Fisheries Corporation together with community based organisations among the fishing community.

Milk Production
Sri Lanka still produces domestically only 40 percent of the country's annual milk requirements. The people have therefore lost the opportunity to consume milk in the nutritious liquid form. Steps will be taken in the next decade to increase domestic production of liquid milk.

 Research will be undertaken to select and introduce varieties of cattle to suit different geographical regions. A "vertical cattle shed system" will be introduced to maintain a larger number of cattle on smaller areas.
 Action to promote milk production in the Northern Province as household and small scale industry will include development of a milk production facility, refrigerators for milk storage, and effective milk collection systems.
 A new milk pricing system based on milk quality to provide higher prices for milk farmers.
 Facilities to introduce high quality grass will be developed through National Livestock Development Board. Import tariffs on quality cattle feed will be reduced.
 
Land and investment facilities needed to build up medium and large scale cattle farms will be developed.
 In order to increase the milk storage facilities experiments will be undertaken to introduce small-scale solar-powered refrigeration facilities.
 Mechanised milking equipment will be provided to milk farmers and cooperatives in milk farming at subsidised prices and easy payment conditions.

Meat and Eggs for Export
 Production of chicken and eggs will be expanded and large- scale producers will be encouraged to export their products.
 Domestic production will be expanded by promoting small and medium scale producers.
 International standards will be introduced and effective monitoring systems will be commenced in respect of animal farms and production facilities.
 Financial and technical support will be provided to commence organic meat production at the household level.

Beyond Industrialisation
It was to make Sri Lanka a major supply hub in South Asia that our 2005-15 government focussed heavily on the development of the country's ports and airports. The industrial development drive this has generated has died down in the last few years as there was little attention on the subject by the incumbent government. On one side, projects have ceased to operate. On the other side, payments for completed work are being delayed. Thousands of enterprises have closed down during this period for these and other reasons. Newspaper advertisements are abundant these days informing that the assets of these failed producers are being auctioned.

Businessmen are suffering from debt burdens. Interest rates have gone up to unbearable extents. The government has also imposed heavy tax burdens on the business community. Money circulation in the country has weakened. People have come to lose faith in cheque payments. Names of many businessmen are in the Central Bank's CRIB list. They are therefore unable
to raise loans even at high rates of interest. We have already completed the preparation of a business revival programme to change this situation. Under this programme, a large role will be placed in the hands of private industrialists and other
entrepreneurs in the country's development. We are convinced that the industrial sector has to be the pioneers and trail blazers of the economy.




There are many things which businessmen ought to do for the country's development - meeting consumer needs, commencement of new industry, generation of employment opportunities, and introduction of new technology in the
country. We believe that industrialists must work in accordance with accepted international standards so that they will maintain high quality of every good and service they produce and supply.

We will create the conducive business environment that is required for the business community to build up domestic industry utilising the country's location specificities and recognising the local and global tendencies.

 Discussions will commence with banks to develop systems to provide relief to businesses in the form of measures such as providing more time to repay their debts.
 Central Bank will be advised to take out from the CRIB those who have been in that list only for a short period of time.
 Assistance to re-commence enterprises in bankruptcy through provision of finance at reduced interest rates.
 In industrial cities/ free trade zones, free ports will be set up covering all Provinces in economic corridors and
surrounding ports and airports in areas such as Colombo and Hambantota.
 In industrial cities/ free trade zones, free ports will be set up covering all Provinces in economic corridors and
surrounding ports and airports in areas such as Colombo and Hambantota.
 An Act of Parliamentary will be brought in to clearly specify what should and should not happen in free trade zones and industrial towns.
 A single unified machinery will be set up to facilitate export- import processes and to eliminate the waste of time in this process.
 Facilities will be provided for international business giants to set up their offices in Colombo and in the Port City.
 An international publicity campaign will be commenced to publicise our new economic plan with the assistance of also the private sector to attract foreign private investments into the country.
 Export of the currently identified natural resources - mineral sands, dolomite, phosphate and gems - in raw form without adding value will be restricted and programmes will be developed to get higher prices for these through value addition before export.
 
Import of modern high-tech instruments used in jewellery industry will be made duty free in order to promote export of gems embedded in jewellery.
 Investigations for discovery of resources, believed available in the earth and in the sea bed will be undertaken using high-tech methods.
 Facilities will be provided to large-scale businesses to commence production of various high technology products.
 Special focus in our plans would be to protect, safeguard and strengthen domestic entrepreneurs.
 Entry of foreign enterprises will be restricted into industrial areas that are easily handled by domestic businesses.
 Facilities will be provided to new entrepreneurs to secure needed land, credit facilities, business consultancy, technological and infrastructure facilities in a hassle-free manner.
 A programme will be commenced to develop entrepreneurship tendencies in people from school days.

Tourism Industry
Tourism industry is one of the most important sectors in our economy to generate foreign exchange earnings. It is also an area that could be easily developed. We will be developing, therefore, a tourism development programme with the intention of increasing annual tourist arrivals to 7 million people. Our
aim is to annually add a foreign exchange inflow of USD 10 billion to the domestic economy from tourism. The benefits from this growth of the tourist industry must be shared by large enterprises as well as small self-employed persons working in the subject area. The objective of our people-centred economy is to attract tourists in the entire range of groups staying in
five-star hotels to those staying in people's houses. This way, it should develop as an environment- and domestic-culture- friendly industry with extensive people's participation.

 Foreigners are attracted to Sri Lanka by its natural beauty. In addition, we will identify new attractions of the country for foreign tourists. Theme parks, religious, cultural and
national heritage sites, opportunities for adventure, attractive agricultural and forest sites, domestic Ayurvedic treatment centres will thus be developed to attract tourists. Priority
will be given to provide investment and other facilities to the private sector to develop tourism on these lines.





 Possibilities to attract tourists to hold business conferences, festivals, exhibitions, seminars and conferences in Sri Lanka will be utilised, using the facilities available particularly in Colombo and Hambantota. Private sector will be facilitated to attract tourists for these purposes.
 Immigration and emigration process in Colombo and Hambantota airports will be made more efficient. Two terminals for domestic travel will be created. Internal airports will be modernised to develop domestic air services making it easier for tourists to move from place to place within the country.
 Tourist service centres will be set up at the road junctions connecting main tourist cities. These centres will be equipped with clean sanitary facilities, restaurants, money exchanges, and such other facilities the tourists need.
 The processes of approval of tourist facilities will be streamlined. Regional offices set up for this purpose will eliminate the need to travel to Colombo for the purpose.
 In main tourism cities, tourism training schools will be established. In addition to the currently available tourism courses, a preliminary diploma course will be initiated to train the youth - currently engaged in tour services and those interested in joining the field - who do not have the O-level qualifications demanded by existing diplomas.
 In order to facilitate reservation of hotels, transport, guides, domestic air tickets and admission card to tourist sites through Internet, a single booking software system will be installed. Electronic gate systems will be installed in places providing tourist accommodation.
 Action will be taken to increase the numbers, with and without training, serving in the tourism industry up to million workers.
 A strategic marketing and advertising programme will be initiated to promote Sri Lanka in foreign countries.
 The number of hotel rooms currently available will have to be doubled. Incentives will be provided also to set up high quality tourist hotels.
 A programme will be initiated to enable domestic dancers and dramatists, painters and sculptors to display and sell their talents and creations in tourist hotels and in places of tourist attraction.
 Labour laws governing tourist sector workers will be revised to create security of employment to them and ensure them the trade rights.
 
Special programmes will be created to develop household- related and community-based tourism.
 All tourist guides and drivers will be registered, trained and certified in order to prevent unnecessary harassment of tourists and to ensure security and protection for the tourists.
 The tourist police service will be developed near tourist centres.

Apparel Industry
The Apparel Industry is still Sri Lanka's principal manufacturing industry. Bringing in 43 percent of the country's total export earnings, it annually adds a sum of USD 5 billion to our export income. It makes a significant contribution to the country's GDP, total employment and regional development. We consider it the responsibility of the government to provide facilities for further development of this sector.

 Already there are plans made by the BOI and the Land Reforms Commission to allocate 200 acres of land belonging to the Commission in Eravur area for the development of a garments town. We will take action to implement these plans speedily.
 Unjustifiable taxes currently being imposed on this and other foreign exchange earning industries will be examined and speedy revisions will be made to such tax systems.

Construction Industry
We identify the construction industry as a key industry that can contribute immensely to our development plans. It has acquired maturity in terms of knowledge, experience and technology use. Sri Lankan companies have therefore operations overseas. Our intention is to prepare the background for this industry to expand to overseas as an environment friendly industry with typical Sri Lankan characteristics.

 In order to facilitate relevant approval processes, we plan to establish a system in which all required approvals can be obtained by construction firms in one place or through the Internet.
 The time taken for approval of any building to be constructed will be reduced to a total of 3 weeks. A system will be put
in place to make all urban construction agree with prevailing urban development plans.




 Vehicle parks will be made mandatory for all urban constructions.
 There has been a serious collapse in the construction industry, with construction firms facing a debt crisis. These companies will be provided opportunity to pay past loans subject to grace periods that could be negotiated.
 The direct and indirect taxes exceeding 300 percent the incumbent government has imposed on the industry will be changed, by replacing the present system with the 2014 tax system.
 The 15 percent VAT on apartments will be scrapped.
 All state construction work will be reserved for the domestic construction firms.
 Currently the banks demand bid bonds, performance guarantees, advance payment guarantees from companies seeking a line of credit in respect of large constructions. In order to minimise the difficulties caused by these, we will institute via the Central Bank, a new system in the handling of relations between construction firms and banks.
 The licensing system that operates today to regulate construction firms in their procurement of raw material will be revised.
 Labour shortage is one of the major issues facing this industry. The investment assistance required for them to move to technical solutions to address labour shortage will be provided. The government will also create facilities to train workers for the machinery to be increasingly used in the industry.
 The youth will be trained to take up jobs in technical grades and there will also be training of required technologists.
 An advisory committee consisting of professional engineers and high-level technologists will be set up to help construction firms obtain required consultancy assistance.
 Sri Lankan construction industry ought to be able to establish its mark at the international level. In order to achieve this, collaboration will be facilitated among the industry, architects' association, Institute of Engineers and universities.
 The security of domestic small and medium sub-contracting firms will be ensured through legislation.

Sugar Manufacturing
Our policy position is that the country's sugar needs must be met with domestically produced sugar. This would enable us to save the substantial outflow of foreign exchange to import sugar.

 The extent of land earmarked for cultivation of sugar cane will be expanded and high yielding sugar cane varieties will be introduced.
 Immediate action will be taken to reopen Kanthale and other sugar factories and private sector will be given incentives to commence new sugar factories.
 Needs of sugar cane cultivation firms, in terms of water and technical knowledge will be provided and action taken to fulfil capital needs.

Small and Medium Industries
 The present system is for many institutions serving SMI sector needs with a lot of overlap. A method will be developed for one organization to serve all needs.
 Priority in this sector would be to undertake value added activities. Necessary encouragements will be provided for this purpose.
 There is a significant raw material problem faced by carpentry industry, cane industry and reed industry. To resolve the problem, the underutilised state lands will be leased out under a cooperative system to cultivate necessary crops to supply these raw material needs.
 To ease the raw material scarcity faced by timber and furniture industry duty free importation of logs will be allowed.




An Active Cooperative Movement
In socialist countries the principal operational institution is the cooperative. It is a valuable discovery of mankind. In Sri Lanka the cooperative movement was strong under all people friendly regimes. In our people centred development plans too the domestic cooperative movement can play a significant role in production processes as well as providing the economic needs of the village.

 A developed and expanded system of production cooperatives will be established in the fields of agriculture, milk production, fisheries and minor crop production.
 The young and female entrepreneurs will be encouraged through production cooperatives to develop export- oriented value added industries.
 Production cooperatives will also be made responsible for raw material supply, raising capital and marketing in respect of traditional industries.
 A cooperative development bank will be set up by all cooperative societies working together.
 The cooperative sales outlets that operate everywhere in the country will be modernised and they will be made to compete with large retail chains to provide high quality goods at reasonable prices.
 Cooperatives will be equipped with modern computer facilities.
 Wage of cooperative workers will be revised upwards.
 The cooperative law to be changed in collaboration with Provincial governments to provide business freedom to cooperatives.
 Cooperatives will be de-politicised.



















































A Technology Based Society

Chapter - 6
A Technology Based Society



 


A Technology Based Society (Smart Nation)
The 21st Century is known as the knowledge-centric century. In order to remain competitive globally, it is imperative that technology be integrated with every sector of the economy, be it agriculture, industry or the service sector. It is imperative that we invest strategically in new technologies and integrate such innovations with our education system, and economy.
In order to enhance the quality of life of our people, we must launch a massive social transformation and create a Culture of Technological Innovation.

Global Innovation Hub
We must maximize the use of the Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI), Biotechnology, Robotics, Augmented Reality, Cloud Computing, Nanotechnology, and 3D Printing and through these innovative measures establish Sri Lanka as a Global Innovation Hub.

Citizen Centric Digital Government
 The convenience of our citizens would be the foremost consideration in setting up a Citizen Centric Digital Government. We will ensure that we put in place a process where people would not have to be inconvenienced as at present, due to inefficiency, delays, and having to commute to many points of service delivery to obtain public services, when such services could be obtained via the internet.
 Using new methodologies and adopting new Internet based technologies, public services such as obtaining National Identity Cards, Passports, Birth Certificates, Death Certificates, Driving Licenses, copies of deeds etc., could be speedily and efficiently handled through nine (09) Citizen Service Centers to be established, one in each Province.
 A Digital and Electronic Payment System will be established for citizens to pay traffic fines with ease and without any hassle.
 A new e-Procurement system would be introduced, thereby ensuring that bribery and corruption would be eliminated.

















50 	Vistas of Prosperity and Splendour 	Gotabaya Rajapaksa





Digitally Inclusive Sri Lanka
 We will establish a country wide High Speed Optical Transmission System and a high speed 5G Mobile Broadband System to facilitate data transmission.
 Digital Cities with digital monitoring and administrative centres will be established to address water and electricity usage, traffic congestion, and disaster situations.
 We will also introduce a mobile and digital payment system along with the necessary physical infrastructure and legal provisions to handle all local and international financial transactions.
 A Cross border e-Commerce and International e-Payment system will be put in place to handle all international trade and financial transactions electronically, along with the required legal provisions.
 New legislation will be introduced to ensure Data Protection, Cyber security, and Intellectual Property Rights.


IT Entrepreneurship
 The Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) industry and the Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO) industry would
be developed to make export earnings of USD 3 billion by 2025. To realize this, we will set up IT centres and BPO centres in our connecting cities.
 We will take steps to increase the number of software engineers and programmers to reach 300,000 by 2025.
 Instead of importing the software needed to run local industries, we will encourage local software engineers and IT designers to develop such software locally with the full backing of the government.
 Maximum support will be given to local entrepreneurs to develop software for the international market




















Gotabaya Rajapaksa 	Vistas of Prosperity and Splendour 	51















































New Approach in National Spatial System



The C shaped Economic corridor is undoubtedly a vital link in our economic planning process, as it entails creating vital
market access points for our local and foreign investors. These economic corridors will be developed integrating Colombo port and Katunayake Airport, Hambantota port and Mattala airport,
Kankasanthurai port and airport, as these are fundamental and  core to making the "agro industrialization" growth strategy a reality as envisioned by our government.
Four Multi- dimensional Commercial Cities
We will develop the main commercial cities of Colombo, Hambantota, Jaffna, and Trincomalee and link them with the airports and ports as
an economic corridor that will establish an internal and international network.


New Colombo - Commercial and Financial Hub
It is gratifying to see that the Colombo Commercial and Financial Hub which was criticized and vilified is in progress and is now a pride for the country. The new land mass added by this project has given new hope and is now the "New Colombo" of the 21st century. It is now a centre for global commerce, trade finance, and banking. We will expedite the stalled development of this new city and fast track the introduction of legal and financial provisions to make it a commercial and financial centre.
Renewable Energy
Renewable energy has now become a widely discussed subject and is needed as part of the overall energy mix of a country, which consists of Hydro, Thermal, Coal and alternative renewable energies. It will ensure that the country has access to low cost energy needed for rapid economic acceleration.
Water
Water resource management has become an important discussion point, and is vital for economic development. Only 45% of the population has access to the water supply. Water ways have also been polluted thereby compounding the problem of providing safe
drinking water to all. It is our intention to meet this challenge and thereby ensure 100% of the population is provided with clean, safe pipe borne water.







 
Integrated Road Network
During our government we assigned high priority to the road network and we will continue to build on our development plans to ensure that all road networks that remain unfinished will be completed and would be connected to the respective economic corridors.
Hambantota Port
We will develop the port making it an international Industrial and Services Port port for technical services, ship maintenance and repair, ship chandling etc., thereby catering to all vessels.

Developing Airports
Mattala airport facilities will be upgraded further, including adding a new taxi way; we will also hold discussion with
international airlines and commence commercial operations.
Disaster Management
It is important that privative measures and early warning systems are in place to minimize the
loss of lives to property and economic damage. The internal system must function in a synchronized manner in such times
of disaster to ease the suffering of the people affected by such events.




New Approach in National Spatial System
The urban and rural divide has to be bridged by providing services and infrastructure facilities equally across the sectors of living. To this end, we must embark on a de-urbanization strategy. The integration of all major cities, townships and business zones would lead to a local "agro industrialization" outcome and ensure value-added production processes, which could be used to improve our global market share. Additionally,
the links will create better value for the tourism sector and would improve the overall earning of this sector. In this context, we plan to introduce "C shaped Economic Corridor System", connecting two main ports and airports and integrating all business zones.

A9 with C9: Nine 'C' shaped Economic Corridors
The C shaped Economic corridor is undoubtedly a vital link in our economic planning process, as it entails creating vital
market access points for our local and foreign investors. These economic corridors will be developed integrating Colombo port and Katunayake Airport, Hambantota port and Mattala airport, Kankasanthurai port and airport, as these are fundamental and core to making the "agro industrialization" growth strategy a reality as envisioned by our government.

Re-engineering Townships
 The urbanization process in Sri Lanka is uneven with distinct disparities between districts in the same province and between cities in the same district. We have been mindful of these disparities and their implications on overall development.
Therefore, we propose an integrated physical spatial system to address these disparities in urbanization and change the structural pattern of our cities.

Four Multi-dimensional Commercial Cities
We will develop the main commercial cities of Colombo, Hambantota, Jaffna, and Trincomalee, and establish them to be connecting centers of the national and international network, as they consist of ports and airports.

National Cities
Kandy, Anuradhapura, Gampaha, Ratnapura, Galle, Badulla, Mannar, Batticaloa, and Kurunegala have been identified as cities that will be developed as national cities in the master plan mainly because of their historical, social and economic value and their interconnectedness with the C zone.

Connecting Cities
Cities such as Puttalam, Negambo, Pothuvil, Dambulla, Matara, Nuwara Eliya and Buttala will be developed as connecting cities to the four multi-dimensional commercial cities and national cities.

Cluster Cities
The development of the four multi-dimensional commercial cities and the national cities will be accompanied by a programme to develop cluster cities with information technology, knowledge and tourism services that will also serve as conducive locations for urban living.

New Colombo-Commercial and Financial Hub
It is gratifying to see that the Colombo Commercial and Financial Hub, which was criticized and vilified is in progress and is now a pride for the country. The new land mass added by this project has given new hope and is now the "New Colombo" of the 21st century. It is now a centre for global commerce, trade finance, and banking. We will expedite
the stalled development of this new city and fast track the introduction of legal and financial provisions to make it an international commercial and financial hub.

 We will develop a Metro Rail system to link the satellite cities in the Colombo district including the Port City. Our intention is to develop a Light Rail Transit (LRT) system, thereby enabling a mixed choice of transport which would ease congestion in transport and commuting.
 We will reduce the traffic congestion in Colombo by 50% by introducing a Radial and Circular road system while adding sky bridges, vertical parking lots and flyovers in key areas, thus improving the overall infrastructure and maximizing the available space in the Colombo city limits.
 The New Colombo beautification project would be undertaken by introducing beautiful urban forests, water gardens, and green belts on either side of the highways, thereby eliminating the visible concrete facades. We
will also ensure that New Colombo will have an efficient garbage management system, a sewage and liquid waste management system as well as a water purification system.

Comfortable Travel - Nature-Friendly Transportation Network
Our government had assigned a high priority to the transport network in the country. The objective was to facilitate commuting and establish a road network that supported economic growth. However, public transport remains neglected and much remains to be done to upgrade and develop the road network as well as the railway network. Our government will assign high priority to develop the transport network and to provide an efficient and environmentally friendly system to the public.

Integrated Road Network
During our government, we have given high priority to the road network, and we will continue to build on our development plans to ensure that all road networks that remain unfinished will be completed and would be connected to the respective economic corridors.





 Colombo-Kandy Expressway and the Port city elevated highway project will be extended and finished without further delays. The network will also connect Kottawa, Battaramulla, and Peliyagoda.
 The Northern and Ratnapura expressway will also be completed, while feasibility studies will be conducted to explore the possibility of having an elevated highway at 1000 feet connecting Kandy to Nuwara Eliya.
 We will also incorporate an overtaking lane at intervals of 3-5KM to ease the traffic congestion in areas identified as bottlenecks.
 The island wide network of roads amounting to 120,000 KM which includes all rural roads have neither been developed nor maintained. Therefore, the entire road network that has fallen into a state of disrepair and neglect will be resurfaced and modernized to conform to international standards.
 We will develop 100,000 KM alternative road system to facilitate higher level of access to main roads and
expressways, while all internal and rural access roads will be improved to facilitate access to the alternative road system.

Transport Services
 We will modernize the Ceylon Transport Board (CTB) and make it a world class transport service on par with any other developed country. The bus stands which are located on prime land will be developed alongside servicing and maintenance depots of such bus routes and networks, for commercial purposes of generating revenue to the CTB.
 We also intend to re-fleet the current bus stock and introduce environmentally friendly buses (electric and hybrid buses) to ply within the city limits of the New Colombo.
This 'Green Transport' concept will be adopted across all public and private transport providers. Additionally, the
trains too will be developed to link the bus routes, thereby ensuring commuters receive a reliable, high quality public transport service and in turn will not rely on private transport. A "Park and Ride" system too will be introduced. We are also developing the existing canals for transportation, the Puttalam-Negombo Hamilton canal that was developed in 2013 and Wellawatte to Battaramulla network of canals will be added into our multi-modal transport action plan.
 The current privately-operated buses will be also supported, and we will ensure that public transport co-exists as they work to a common timetable, thereby ensuring they too
are profitable and can operate within the established public transport framework. Private bus owners would be given all needed bank loans, tax relief and assistance to re-fleet their bus portfolios and comply with the "Green Transport" concept.
 A single transport e-ticket system (i.e. multi-modal ticket, day tickets etc) and a process will be introduced, and
e-ticketing mechanism would be implemented for all public and private transport services.
 
We will provide training and skills development to all private and public bus operators in order to make them understand the importance and to comply with the minimum customer standards that are required to make public transport a disciplined, reliable and clean transport service.
 We will revisit and revise the current traffic fines imposed on the public, thereby ensuring that bus operators are not overly taxed. While doing this, we will also establish a mechanism that would make private bus operators disciplined, strictly obey traffic rules, and comply fully with other public safety standards.

Train Transport Services
 As an interim measure, we will develop and upgrade all train compartments, carriages, and clean and repair them and make them available to the public. We will also repair existing rail tracks in line with the programme of adding value to train services; the Sri Lanka Railway Department will be given adequate powers to ensure that they provide an efficient, clean and reliable train service to the general public and tourists.
 Colombo-Panadura-Veyangoda, Ragama-Katunayake- Negombo, and Maradana -Homagama rail lines will be converted into electric train routes and thereby ensure the public is provided with a luxury transport service similar to that planned for the buses.
 E-ticketing system will be provided and introduced for all train transportation.
 The railway will also be used to transport goods since it will help to minimize the traffic situation aggravated by container transportation via roads. We will provide assistance to import required locomotives and will establish a method to build trailers locally, that are needed for cargo transportation. We will expand facilities required to transport cargo via trains to Colombo, Hambantota, Trincomalee and Kankasanthurai ports.
 We will develop all key train stations, converting them into functional, recreational, meeting, greeting and eating places, with malls and shops needed to provide consumers with a total travel experience

Ports and Air Services
We will develop Colombo-Katunayake and Hambantota- Mattala air and sea ports as commercial and passenger ports. We will also convert these locations into free ports in order to encourage local entrepreneurs and channel overseas investments into these areas.

Colombo Port
 The Port of Colombo is a national asset, and it must be upgraded to handle transhipment business volumes, thereby doubling the TEU capacity. Priority will be given to the East




Terminal development project by our government. We will conduct a feasibility study to construct a new cross berth terminal between East Container Terminal and SAGT. The West Container Terminal too would be developed with private sector participation.
 We will also use rail transportation to its full potential for the transporting of containers, as this is important given that
it would reduce the congestion around the city limits. A network of three Container Depots would be developed in Peliyagoda, Veyangoda and Ratmalana immediately with the participation of the private sector.

Hambantota Port
 Hambantota port is a national asset and was defined as a strategic asset by us previously, and the intention was never to sell or lease the port for 99 years. We will make it a priority to revisit the already signed agreement with the Chinese government and explore ways as to how best we could bring about a win-win for the two countries.
 We will develop Hambantota port as an International, Industrial and Services Port, and establish facilities for local businesses to provide services such as Ship maintenance and repair, ship chandeling, etc., to cater all vessels.
 	All physical infrastructure requirement of the Hambantota Free Trade Zone will be provided by the government to facilitate the commencement of operations.
 Galle, Kankasanthurai and Trincomalee ports will be developed according to the requirements of each region and to facilitate the needs of national economic corridors.

Developing Airports
 The second runway and passenger terminal will be developed without any further delay. New Domestic passenger terminal will be developed to facilitate internal/ domestic flights.
 Mattala airport facilities will be upgraded while adding a new Taxiway and Cargo Terminal. We will also hold discussions with international airlines to commence commercial operations.
 We will develop all other domestic airports and passenger terminals enabling internal transportation, tourism and movement of people. Nuwara Eliya would also be included in this coverage.

Renewable Energy
Renewable energy has now become a widely discussed subject and is needed as part of the overall energy mix of a country, which consists of Hydro, Thermal, Coal and alternative renewable energies. It will ensure that the country has access to low cost energy needed for rapid economic acceleration.
By 2030, we expect the country's renewable energy mix to

be 40% of the total portfolio. We also anticipate that hydro and renewable energy together would account for 80% of the overall energy mix by 2030.

 Achieving Energy Security and self-sufficiency will be one of our primary policy and strategic objectives and we will put our best effort to ensure that the country has adequate capacity to meet the future demand.
 We will also expedite the exploration of natural gas identified in the three zones of the geological survey, to ensure that the people of this country would reap the benefits in the next three years.
 The oil refinery located in Kolonnawa, which is 40 years old will be modernized while the oil storage tanks in Trincomalee will also be re-constructed and developed so that they can be used for the economic development of the country.
 According to the current plan, we will take actions to add 230MW of power to the national grid by installing the Broadland hydropower station by 2020, Uma Oya by 2021, Moragolla by 2023, Talapitigala and Seethwaka by 2024.
 Immediate actions will be taken to convert the Kelanitissa plant to a natural gas turbine plant, where similar two plants will be implemented in Kerawalapitiya and Hambantota before 2023. As part of the environmental-friendly policy, we will convert the fuel-powered plants located around the Colombo area to natural gas turbine plants within the next year.
 We will develop a Smart Grid to ensure maximum efficiency and utilization is obtained from all power plants.

Transformation Toward Renewable energy
 We will add 100MW of wind energy in Mannar by 2021. Additionally, we expect to add 800MW of solar energy to the national grid by executing a wind and solar power project with a public-private partnership in potential locations around the country including Mannar, Poonareyn and Monaragala.
 Roof top solar systems will be encouraged so that households and small businesses would have access to low cost energy, which will be done in the course of the next five years. The total cost of such investments would be made available through bank loans with low/concessional interest rates. The government will also introduce a new method
to release excess power generation to the national grid in improving solar energy utilization.
 We will remove all impediments and incentivize the private sector and entrepreneurs interested in setting up renewable energy projects i.e. solar and wind, and to this end, the government will provide assistance.
 We will also introduce an efficient energy generation programme using industrial waste in each city.
 We will introduce new policies and legislation to ensure the efficient use of energy in construction sector.





Water
Water resource management has become an important discussion point and is vital for economic development. Only 45% of the population has access to the pipe-borne water supply. Waterways have also been polluted, thereby
compounding the problem of providing safe drinking water to all. It is our intention to meet this challenge and ensure 100% of the population is provided with clean and safe drinking and pipe-borne water.

 We will embark on a campaign to educate people of the importance of keeping rivers, lakes and reservoir/tanks free from contamination and pollution. We will encourage the participation of university students, school children and youngsters and conduct this campaign for a year. The
further continuation of this campaign will be handed over to local police and the communities of the respective areas.
 The storage and collection of rain water are paramount if we are to make use of the gift of this natural water source. We will ensure that all water resources are managed and utilized in an efficient manner for agriculture by adopting drip irrigation and other modern techniques. To facilitate this process, we will introduce low cost interest rate loans and tax relief.
 We will take necessary actions to create an environment where rivers, lakes, and reservoirs/tanks are free from chemicals, pesticides, and other harmful chemicals.
 We will introduce a water storage mechanism for all new houses located in water-scarce areas in order to ensure ground water is not misused.
 Presently, Sri Lankan government spends billions of money every year to manage the disasters that occurs due to the flooding in the areas of Kelani, Kalu, Ging and Nilwala rivers and the droughts in the dry regions of the country. Therefore, we will utilize this money to proactively manage these situations by developing a flood control mechanism with prevention and forewarning systems and water storage and pumping methods to dry areas through drainage and canals systems. We will form a committee consists of experts to execute this project by 2025.
 We will ensure that all citizens of this country will have access to clean drinking water around the clock within the next three years by expanding and improving the efficiency of the current projects carried out by Sri Lanka Water Board and Community Water Projects. We will also introduce new legislation to establish accurate water recycling processes for all industrial and commercial constructions.

Disaster Management
The phenomena of natural disasters and man-made disasters are common in any country. Therefore, it is essential that privative measures and early warning systems are in place to minimize the loss of lives, property and economic damage. The internal system must function in a synchronized manner in such times of disaster to ease the suffering of the people affected
by such events. Therefore, we need to have the necessary laws to hold people accountable for their tasks and also to act responsibly in the event of such cases.

 A common problem is the man-made disaster of the human- elephant conflict which has had a toll on both man and elephant. Therefore, a permanent solution is a must. We will ensure that we provide a quick resolution to this problem by:
1. Erecting an electric fence with the required specifications where the elephants cannot damage or dislodge such a structure.
2. Identifying water holes that elephants patronize and ensuring such watering holes are free from other wildlife.
3. Providing financial assistance to all those who have suffered the loss of houses, damages to property, have been injured and those who have lost their lives due to attacks by wild elephants.

 We will revise the Disaster Management Act and bring a cohesive and aligned management policy to handle all forms of disasters. We will also provide the latest equipment, technology and knowledge needed to bring proactive solutions to the Meteorology Department.
 All required facilities and legal power will be provided to the National Building Research Organization while combining the Disaster Management Centre and the Disaster Relief Centre and institutionalizing a "Disaster Management Authority"
with powers vested to act swiftly and responsibly under the Ministry of Disaster Management.
 We will develop a "National Disaster Database" including disaster-affected and potential disaster-prone areas, people, properties, businesses and agricultural lands to provide early warnings and to take preventive measures.
 All affected people, houses, other properties, lands and agricultural lands related to projects such as "Uma Oya" and others during the past five years due to the neglection and improper management of the previous government will be revisited and corrected, and if compensations were not adequate, we would rectify these anomalies immediately.
 We will establish a permanent "Care Centre System "to facilitate and minimize the difficulties faced by the people, specially the women and children, who are frequently affected by natural disasters. We will create a procedure to rent those places in disaster-free periods to earn expenses required to maintain these centers.














































A Sustainable Environmental Policy



The breakdown of the balance in the environment by artificially modifying or adversely affecting the biosphere is considered
a form of environmental pollution. Sustainable Environmental Policy is not just about environmental conservation, but also implementing balanced social and economic practices towards sustainable development.
Land
Industries
Waste Management
Land should be used solely for the benefit of the people in Sri Lanka. In order to
do that it is important to re-activate the National
Physical Plan. It is important to introduce scientific methods to improve sustainable agriculture, animal husbandry and plantation agriculture to achieve maximum financial gains while reducing the impact on the environment
The Linear Economy in which manufacturers produce goods using the existing raw materials and dispose of waste into the environment will be replaced with the Circular Economy in which waste in one industry can be used as raw material in another. ( Re-use, Re- cycle, Re-purpose). This will create eco-industrial zones and pave the way for a green economy.
The first step in the waste management process will be
to make people aware that waste is their own creation. Necessary action will be taken to minimize waste generation.
Sustainable consumption concepts will be introduced from a person's childhood.
Biodiversity  The sustainability of land and water
resource management
will be ensured while taking proactive measures to increase national forest cover by 30%. Appropriate and definitive measures will be taken to identify areas for reforestation purposes.
Settlements and Cities
When establishing settlements, potential areas will be selected that will have minimum environmental impact while no large-scale developments will be allowed in identified environmentally sensitive areas.
Environmental Education Strategic and targeted programmes will be planned
and implemented to increase
awareness and active engagement within communities with regard to issues such as forest conservation, soil conservation, coastal conservation, waste management, energy management and noise pollution management.





A Sustainable Environmental Policy
The breakdown of the balance in the environment by artificially modifying or adversely affecting the biosphere is considered
a form of environmental pollution. Sustainable Environmental Policy is not just about environmental conservation, but also implementing balanced social and economic practices towards sustainable development.

Most human activities that take place today cause massive damage to the natural environment. We have the responsibility to protect the right of future generations to live in a safe environment.

When implementing government policy and strategies, we will,
 focus on implementing environmental regulations in order to conserve and protect the environment.
 when developing the country, take into consideration consider not only the financial aspects but also the attainment of sustainable development goals.
 take steps to integrate indigenous knowledge and technologies with the modern knowledge and technologies for sustainable development.
 will coordinate with local administrative structures in order to ensure the well-being, health and economic development of the people.
 update existing environmental policies and rules.

Policies and strategies in each of the following areas should change as indicated below;

Land
 Land should be used solely for the benefit of the people in Sri Lanka. In order to do that it is important to re-activate the National Physical Plan. It is important to introduce scientific methods to improve sustainable agriculture, animal husbandry and plantation agriculture to achieve maximum
financial gains while reducing the impact on the environment.
 A strategy will be put in place to re-establish and enhance the green cover on the mountains and hilly areas as a solution to the problem of soil erosion, landslides and the drying of the upper soil layers. Sophisticated techniques and technologies will be introduced to control landslides.
 
Action will be taken to control human impact on marshy lands and mangrove ecosystems and to conserve them.
 A system will be put in place to identify barren and abandoned lands and to restore them to be used as agricultural land and forest lands.

Industries
The Linear Economy in which manufacturers produce goods using raw materials and dispose of waste into the environment will be replaced with the Circular Economy in which waste in one industry can be used as raw material in another (Re-use, Re-cycle, Re-purpose). We will create eco-industrial zones and pave the way for a green economy.

Waste Management
 The first step in the waste management process will be to make people aware that waste is their own creation.
Necessary action will be taken to minimize waste generation. Sustainable consumption concepts will be introduced from a person's childhood.
 Plastic pollution is the most widespread problem affecting Sri Lankan coastal areas and marine environment. An action plan will be formulated to safeguard the oceans from pollution including plastic pollution.
 Waste sorting and separation will be made mandatory for households and industries. This will go hand in hand with an extensive awareness campaign at the provincial level.
 Proper waste collection systems and designated disposal locations will be introduced including sanitary landfills shared by more than one Pradeshiya Sabha.
 Modern techniques and improved incinerators will be introduced to dispose of hospital waste and industrial (chemical) waste. Illegal and irresponsible waste disposers will be identified and strict action will be taken against such parties.




Atmosphere
 Guidelines will be provided to reduce and control carbon emissions and other forms of air pollution. Industrial establishments will be encouraged to plant trees, establish urban forests, green paths, green roofs and agroforestry systems.
 The use of fossil fuels will be discouraged and de- carbonization will be encouraged especially in transportation, industries and building construction. Steps will be taken to arrive at a net carbon zero country.

Biodiversity
 The protection, conservation and rehabilitation of biodiversity will be under the purview of a single institution.
 The sustainability of land and water resource management will be ensured while taking proactive measures to increase national forest cover by 30%. Appropriate and definitive measures will be taken to identify suitable areas for reforestation purposes.
 Measures will be taken to increase national forest cover by establishing parks in urban and semi-urban areas,
developing urban vegetation by establishing tree lines along express ways and implementing tree planting programmes in industrial premises.
 The protection of biodiversity does not only mean conservation. It is also a way to improve the national economy. Biodiversity will be incorporated into tourism, education and cultural events in a planned and systematic manner in order to boost the economy.
 Natural ecosystems will be conserved while actively restoring and rehabilitating degraded ecosystems.

Ocean Resources
Ocean resources will be utilized in a sustainable manner under the concept of a blue-green economy. The Ocean University will be upgraded to an international standard. While giving high priority to ocean exploration, immediate action will be taken to mitigate the coastal erosion occurring in various parts of the island.

Settlements and Cities
 When establishing settlements, potential areas will be selected to ensure the minimum environmental impact. No large-scale developments will be allowed in identified environmentally sensitive areas. Additionally, Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEA) will be carried out for each district in the island.
 The concept of a land based economy (a parcel of land for every individual) will have to be reconsidered. The building of settlements should be carried out on the basis of the Neighborhood Principle and Vertical Green Development (high rise developments).
 Settlements that are built according to the above principles will be turned into "Green and Smart" cities. All infrastructure development that occurs in rural areas will be built to be resilient to natural disasters (Disaster Resilient Villages).
 Measures will be taken to mitigate the serious environmental damage that occurs due to illegal and irregular sand mining; this will be achieved by introducing specific zones where riverine and ground sand can be mined. Misconceptions regarding the suitability of sea sand for construction will
be eliminated by operationalizing arrangements to utilize off-shore sea sand after purification. A quality certificate in relation to the purification process will be issued.




Environmental Education
 Direct and Indirect environmental education based on classroom learning as well as experiential education will be an integral component of the school syllabus from grade 1 onwards. Children and youth will be encouraged to pursue eco entrepreneurship opportunities based on environmental protection and conservation by promoting awareness and positive attitude change.
 Targeted programmes will be planned and implemented to increase awareness and the active engagement of communities in areas such as forest conservation, soil conservation, coastal conservation, waste management, energy management and noise pollution management.
 The complexities of the present environmental regulatory framework will be reduced and a simple , coherent and clear structure under a centralized system will be put in place.










































A Righteous, Disciplined and Law Abiding Society




Real progress in a country is achieved only when economic development goes hand in hand with spiritual development. A really wealthy person must have good qualities and a happy disposition. Then only a society where one treats others with compassion, where people help each other and where there is mutual respect can be brought about. As such, we shall constantly dedicate ourselves to ensure that the citizens are disciplined and righteous while making them prosperous economically.
The Foremost Place to Religion
Sri Lanka has continued to be a righteous country by virtue of giving the foremost place to Buddhism over the
ages while maintaining religious co-existence with the adherents of Hindu, Christian, Islamic and other faiths.
For a Law Abiding and Fair Society
The legal system in a country is the foundation of a civilised society and it should operate to ensure the well-being of its people. The aim of the concept of rule of law is to build a civilised society. As such, a democratic government should never interfere with the rule of law. Our government shall always be dedicated to protecting the rule of law and shall not allow anyone to challenge it.

A Transparent Mass Media Policy
A sign of any healthy democratic society is the availability of opportunities for its people to practice freedom of speech and publication as per international conventions. As such, we accept that there should be unhindered opportunities for the communication of information, knowledge and opinions.
History, Archeology and National Heritage
The historical heritage of a country depicts its pride and identity. It is our bounden duty to properly conserve them for future generations.


Culture, Literature and the Arts
A country and its society are held in high esteem because of its culture. Artists who bring out creations of high standards and people with good taste are a valuable resource to a country. Ours is a nation with such a proud heritage. It is our duty to preserve that culture and artistic creations for the future.
Social Protection and Welfare
Social inequality that will result as a consequence of development, can be considered a social problem rather than a personal issue. A government's responsibility, therefore, is to protect these vulnerable people.





A Righteous, Disciplined and Just Society
Economic development brings about material progress. It showcases outward development at individual, society and national levels. But real progress in a country is achieved only when economic development goes hand in hand with spiritual development. However much money and riches a person possesses, if his mind is filled with fear, suspicion, jealousy and hatred, he cannot be called a wealthy person. A really wealthy person must have good qualities and a happy disposition. Then only a society where one treats others with compassion, where people help each other and where there is mutual respect
can be brought about. As such, we shall constantly dedicate ourselves to ensure that the citizens are disciplined and righteous while making them prosperous economically.

The Foremost Place to Religion
A society becomes virtuous when a majority of the citizens of a country are religiously and spiritually inclined. Sri Lanka
has continued to be a righteous country by virtue of giving the foremost place to Buddhism over the ages while maintaining religious co-existence with the adherents of Hindu, Christian, Islamic and other faiths.

 As per Article 9 of the constitution, we shall give foremost place to Buddhism and protect the Buddha Sasana.
 As per other Articles of the constitution, we shall fulfill all the duties and obligations of the government to protect the
rights of every religion. We shall fearlessly take steps against religious extremism and thereby ensure the right of all citizens to practice their religion without fear.
 We shall establish a national programme named "Sasun Udawa" to develop all infrastructure facilities such as access roads, electricity supply, water supply and sanitation facilities etc., of temples in remote locations, of all temples that are not properly managed due to the lack of a capable Committee of Devotees and of abodes of Buddhist nuns. Accordingly, an effective methodology will be introduced for the maintenance and development of regular temples and abodes of Buddhist nuns through "Buddha-Sasana" Fund and the Central Cultural Fund.
 A programme centering around the village temple, its resident Buddhist monks and its Committee of Devotees will be launched to develop social, economic and moral values.
 A new educational programme will be put in place to develop English language, computer and technical skills of young Buddhist monks. A monthly sponsorship programme will be introduced to reimburse the educational expenses of these student monks.
 
Throughout history, the Buddhist clergy has provided a yeoman service for the protection and social upliftment of this country. As a token of appreciation, a programme
named "Budu-puth Ma-piya Harasara" will be launched to recognise and provide assistance to parents who have given over their children to the Buddhist order.
 A special programme will be arranged for the upliftment of "Pirivena" education under the auspices of the Ministry of Education. Under this programme, steps will be taken to resolve the pending issues pertaining to appointments and salaries and wages of principals and teachers of Pirivenas as well as the pending issues of Dhamma school teachers.
 In order to promote authentic religious education devoid of extremist ideologies in Sri Lankan society - where people of all religions have peacefully co-existed throughout the ages - a programme will be launched in collaboration with Provincial Councils to take care of shortcomings of registered religious schools belonging to all religious faiths.

For a Law Abiding and Fair Society
The legal system in a country is the foundation of a civilised society and it should operate to ensure the well-being of its people. The aim of the concept of rule of law is to build a civilised society. As such, a democratic government should never interfere with the rule of law. Our government shall always be dedicated to protecting the rule of law and shall not allow anyone to challenge it.

 Only one set of laws should be applicable to the entire country and the ruler as well as all citizens should abide by the rule of law. All should be equal before the law and as long as they abide by the rule of law, citizens need not be afraid of law enforcement agencies or of law enforcement officers. An environment will be created where law enforcement agencies and law enforcement officers shall also be subjected to the rule of law.
 Obsolete legal procedures and ordinances shall be amended and a legal system that is suitable for the future shall be introduced. Necessary legal reforms shall be made to
ensure that the country's legal system matches well with international laws.
 By making use of the infrastructure facilities that will be made available with the immediate implementation of the plan made by our government in 2014 for infrastructure development in the judicial sector, steps shall be taken to eliminate delays in the dispensation of justice. Measures would be introduced to empower the arbitration process so that civil disputes could be settled at Mediation Boards instead of being taken to the courts of law.




 In order to increase the efficiency of law enforcement procedures and mechanisms, relevant personnel shall be given local and overseas training. Steps shall also be taken to restructure law enforcement agencies without any delay.
 Digital technology will be used to improve the coordination between the judicial system and related agencies.
 A transparent mechanism will be introduced in the appointment of judges and in filling up higher positions in the legal sector so that candidates' qualifications, seniority and experience shall be properly taken into account.
 In consultation with the Chief Justice, the Attorney General, legal experts and the Bar Association, a transparent and straight forward system shall be implemented to oversee the appointment of President's Counsels. Facilities will be provided at all judicial premises to enable lawyers to carry out their duties with professional dignity.
 As per best practices adopted in other parts of the modern world, in order to maintain high standards in the legal profession, our lawyers too will be provided with an opportunity for continuous professional development through the establishment of a superior legal education system.

A Transparent Mass Media Policy
A sign of any healthy democratic society is the availability of opportunities for its people to practice freedom of speech and publication as per international conventions. People are able to take correct political and economic decisions only when they are armed with the correct news and information. As such, we accept that there should be unhindered opportunities for the communication of information, knowledge and opinions.

 In order to create a society suited for the 21st century, we wholeheartedly accept the need for the freedom of speech and publication and shall do our outmost to protect these rights. Accordingly, we shall consider it our bounden duty to create the necessary free and unhindered environment for media professionals to carry out their duties.
 Having understood the relationship between Sri Lankan mass media and contemporary global developments in this field, special attention will be given to national and
international regulations for upholding media standards, the operation of national and international media institutions and the role of media in promoting social and cultural identities.
 Guidelines for the mass media will be formulated with an understanding that works within the framework of journalists' associations, the culture of mass media organisations, accepted societal norms for family and human inter- relationship and values.
 
A "Higher Education Institute for Mass-media" on par with international standards will be set up under government patronage in order to produce media professionals with high professional skills.
 Having recognised the problems encountered due to chaotic conditions prevalent in the fields of mass media and communication, a committee of experts will be appointed to develop mass media education conforming to high academic standards. As per guidelines set by them, mass media education will be completely re-structured.
Opportunities for mass media professionals to obtain training at international levels will be enhanced.
 Government attention will be focused on how financial investments are obtained to set up newspaper, radio and television institutions. Direct foreign investments in this field will be supervised by the government and will be regulated by new rules and regulations.
 In order to free Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation and Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation from the pressure of financial competition so that they can function as model institutions in the mass media field, they will be brought under a Commission that is accountable to the Parliament.
 Press Council will be re-structured to cover electronic, print and other new media and made to adjudicate on matters relating to journalists and media institutions. It will also act as a centre to promote media education.
 A housing complex for mass media professionals will be set up in the city and a concessionary vehicle loan scheme will be introduced for them.
 Press Clubs will be set up provincially in order to provide extensive facilities for all journalists.
 Necessary steps will be taken to provide education to the society on the use, handling and the adoption of
communication strategies with regard to new forms of media including social media.

History, Archeology and National Heritage
The historical heritage of a country depicts its pride and identity. It is our bounden duty to properly conserve them for future generations.

 We shall not allow any party to destroy or vandalise historical heritage sites and archeologically important sites and shall conserve such places of worship as national heritages. We shall amend the legal ordinances as deemed necessary in order to provide these sites with the highest security and launch a coordination programme to increase the efficiency of regulatory authorities in charge of such matters.





 A "Digital Archeological Encyclopedia" that provides information on places of worship of archeological and historical significance belonging to all religions will be created. A comprehensive study will be carried out on the Central Cultural Fund in order to completely re-structure it.
 Without endangering the archeological value of such places in anyway, basic amenities will be provided for tourists who visit places of national importance.
 A scheme will be set in place to provide tourist guides with accurate knowledge and information in order to prevent wrong information being disseminated to tourists.

Culture, Literature and the Arts
A country and its society are held in high esteem because of its culture. Artists who bring out creations of high standards and people with good taste are a valuable resource to a country.
Ours is a nation with such a proud heritage. It is our duty to preserve that culture and artistic creations for the future.

Literary Field
 In order to maintain a high standard in creative literature that includes novels, short stories and poetry, a new scheme will be put in place to promote the writing of such books, their publication and marketing.
 Tax concessions will be provided for supporting book publishing, purchasing of paper material and printing machinery and a proper mechanism will be established to ensure royalty payments to authors from publishing contracts.
 Funding provision would increase to expand the Publication Assistance Project sponsored by the National Library and Documentation Services Board. Assistance will be provided to develop literature of children and youth while necessary technical assistance will be provided to expand the space to use e-books.
 Special assistance will be provided to translate best works of Sinhala literature to English and Tamil and vice versa while library system across the country will be revitalized with modern technology.

Theatre/Stage Drama
 A modern state-of-the-art theatre will be established in the capital to facilitate to acquire necessary skills in stage script writing/directing and production. Its space will be provided free of charge to producers to practice stage drama under a proper mechanism.
 
Theatres will be fully equipped with the latest technology, with theatre study halls and library facilities established in each district.
 Steps will be taken to fully revitalize Professor Ediriiweera Sarachchandra Drama Training School of Department of Cultural Affairs and funding assistance will be provided to reproduce great works of stage/theatre in the country. Tax concessions will be given to stage drama producers to perform stage dramas Island wide.

Cinema Industry
 A special task force will be established to study the deep- rooted problems in the film industry and to propose the way forward for rapid revival. The tussle over film distribution in Sri Lanka would be fully settled and a sustainable solution provided to fully resurrect the film distribution system with the agreement of National Film Corporation and Distributing Companies/Film Distributors.
 Government sponsored assistance will be provided to produce high quality creative films while interest free loans would be granted to cover 50% of production costs of films of international recognition. 80% of interest free loans would be provided to produce the first creation of Young Cinematographers.
 A state-of-the-art film processing laboratory will be set up with the collaboration of the private sector entrepreneurs who will be given tax concessions.
 Local cinema halls countrywide will be converted to digital cinemas while the government will provide assistance to set up smaller cinema halls in urban apartment complexes and multi-purpose trade centers.
 National Film corporation will be modernized to stand as a strong institution and a mechanism initiated that would
make a substantial contribution towards film production and advertisement.

Music
 A proper procedure in line with international best practices will be introduced to resolve prevailing issues regarding payment of royalties to the lyricist and the composer of
its music. Enforcement of royalty disbursement will be streamlined in such a way that making royalty payments would be compulsory on a semi-annual basis. Current royalties to lyricists, composers or performers for their musical works prepared for commercial use by the telecommunication companies will be increased by 50%.




 The effective execution of the royalty collection in the event of used works of music industry for commercial purposes would be duly formalized and be extended to include digital media.
 Government assistance would be made available to nurture the work of early-career composers and librettists for development of their artistic practice and facilitated to produce the highest quality artistic products in the musical theatre performance, opera etc.
 Tax concession will be provided to the private sector for construction of complete visual and sound laboratories with the intention of producing high quality creations of arts. The taxes currently being imposed on organizing musical shows will be reduced.

Dancing Sector
 The government will provide continuous support for creation of traditional up-country dancing, low-country dancing and Sabaragamuwa dancing traditions. Necessary measures will be taken to protect traditional dancing practices.
 With a view to enshrining job stability of traditional and modern dancing specialists, opportunities will be provided for them to market their creations in local and international fairs and expand opportunities by linking this industry with tourism sector.
 The opportunities will be expanded through visual media and modern technology protecting inheritance identity of traditional art of dancing.

Arts and Sculpture Sector
 A fully fledged art and sculpture exhibition theatre will be set up in the capital city for specialists in art and sculpture to showcase their creations. Also, measures will be taken to set up similar art theatre networks in all districts.
 A practical coordination framework will be established to link arts and sculpture sectors with the tourism sector with a view of exhibiting and marketing their products.
 A special museum will be set up to protect and display excellent creations of art and sculpture.

Shanthikarma or Traditional Rituals
A special regulatory body will be established under the Cultural Ministry to resolve problems and to address issues in "bali thovil and shanthikarma" sector and a framework will be set up to provide raw materials for this traditional industry with legal provisions for specialists in this sector to store raw materials.

Social Protection and Welfare
Social inequality that will result as a consequence of development, can be considered a social problem rather than a personal issue. If the inequality prevailing in a country even when that county has achieved every development target, it
depicts that majority of the people in that country are vulnerable and helpless. A government's responsibility, therefore, is to protect these vulnerable people.

Framework of Making Low Income Earners as High Income Earners
Although, every country has some sections of the society classed as poor, poverty in a developed country is not the same as that of a developing country or a least developed country.
Inability to earn to purchase necessary food and inability to maintain general living standards are considered as indicators of poverty. Social inequality and poverty can be eradicated only when new income opportunities are provided to low income earners to earn an additional income.

 Measures will be taken to restart and revitalize the Divineguma programme, which was abolished by the incumbent government for political reasons. Under this programme, 100,000 low income families will be selected and provided with training, infrastructure facilities, equipment and markets, in areas such as agriculture, fisheries, animal husbandry for value addition; this will be done under a cooperative village system.
 Professional training opportunities will be provided to youth in Samurdhi families, aiming to create a skilled workforce and then directing them for government and non-government employment and foreign labour markets.
 All existing Samurdhi benefits provided for low income families will be increased.
 All the Samurdhi Banks will be restructured using modern technology, and facilities will be provided for customers to do their day-to-day transactions through mobile phones.
 Issues with regard to salaries, allowances, promotions and pensions of employees in Samurdhi Development Department will be resolved with immediate effect.





Social Protection
 New contributory pension scheme will be set up for people who are not receiving pension at present and a social protection fund will be established to address the issues in health, religious and other current requirements of elderly community.
 Monthly allowances currently provided for fatal diseases such as cancer and kidney will be increased.
 Single parent family with kids below 12 years of age and does not have any income sources will be provided with a monthly allowance.

Control of Crimes
 The police will be strengthened by providing modern technical know-how for combating all kinds of crime.
 The court system will be restructured to complete all criminal cases in courts without delay.
 Special regulatory mechanism will be established to prevent political support for criminals.
 New advanced equipment and processes will be established to monitor criminals in prison.
 Two fully fledged rehabilitation centres will be established for first-time prisoners and prisoners who have been jailed for small offences, with the aim of bringing them back to society.
 A special programme of action will be formulated to rehabilitate people who are returning to prisons at regular intervals.

Control of Road Accidents
 Pedestrian paths will be constructed on all roads for pedestrians to walk without entering main roads; a mechanism will also be established for pedestrians to cross roads only in designated places.
 The road accidents can be controlled only through the full support of motorists. For this purpose, all major roads of the country will be monitored through CCTV cameras to identify the regularly reckless drivers.
 Existing laws will be revisited to provide reasonable compensation for deaths and irreversible disabilities, due to road accidents.

Love for Animals
 A strong framework will be established for the protection of national heritage of our country such as elephants, all other wild animals, and birds.
 Strong legal action will be instituted against those found to be guilty of brutal killing of elephants during the last five years.
 The government support will be provided to establish special protection centres for protecting discarded pets on roadsides.
 Concessionary pricing scheme will be introduced for medicines and other needs of pets.
 Animal friendly children's societies' will be established to sensitize children on the need to be kind to animals.



















































"Dialogue with the Village"





 


"Gama Samaga Pilisandara" "Dialogue with the Village"
Our policy is built upon the "Gama Samaga Pilisandara"- "Dialogue with the Village" programme that encompasses ideas from the inhabitants of 25,000 villages. As a result, we were able to identify the shortcomings and necessities required by these villagers. This approach helped us to clearly understand critical issues such as; how many houses require electricity?
How many roads need repair and maintenance? How many homes lack access to clean drinking water? etc. Since these issues are already identified, we will be able to allocate the necessary funds from the national budget with ease. Through these activities, we launch an appropriate system to ensure that all villages encompass of all essential facilities.

People-Centric Board and People-Centric Centers
 A people-centric board at every Grama Sewa division will be set up under the purview of each village's religious leaders, educated and knowledgeable seniors, youth leaders and women representatives, who will actively get involved with the government's programme. They will be entrusted to look into and bring to the attention of the shortcomings of their village. With this process, we will encourage financial transparency from the village level upwards.
 
We will establish one people-centric centre in each Grama Sewa division. These centers will be given provisions to accommodate the people-centric board's meeting hall, the offices of the Grama Sewaka, Samurdhi officers, Agricultural research & production officer and Family health officers. Furthermore, the centre will have internet facilities for the youth, e-library, children's centre, smart teaching room and technical service centre.
 The people-centric board will be given the responsibility of maintaining the functionality of electricity, clean drinking
water, road network, irrigation network, pre-school, maternal and child clinics, community centre, playground and waste management. Additionally, the people-centric board will be responsible for monitoring and following up on necessary technology, research and equipment required for agriculture, fisheries and small industries, and ensuring such are provided.






"Gami Liyata Rate Saviya"
The main aim of our people-centric economic policy is to uplift the farmers and make them into farming entrepreneurs. Their current predicament sees the middle man taking the lion share of the profits and forcing these farmers to remain below the poverty line. Efforts of the farmers to feed the nation are not reflected in their success, and we need to stop considering their value limiting only for their votes. Within this concept, the invaluable effort and contribution of the village women must be recognized.

 We will devise a state-sponsored mechanism, where women entrepreneurs can get involved in small and medium enterprises related to handlooms, garments, crochet, lace, cane, clay pottery, coir, dried fish and fisheries for identified target markets.
 We believe that having an additional income is one of the best ways to cover the expenses of a family. We will encourage the unemployed members of households,
specially the housewives to utilize naturally available excess fruits and vegetables in their own gardens to produce value- added products or to provide them as raw materials for such value-adding production centers to earn an extra income.
We will create a separate system to collect these products from their households and introduce a mobile application to connect and exchange information.
 We have observed many village women falling victim to unregulated micro finance schemes charging exorbitant interest rates. We will identify such predatory schemes and ensure relief to such victims.

Regional Development
All previous efforts to develop the village as an isolated economic centre have failed, similar to the attempts made to link the national development programme directly to the village.
Therefore, taking the village towards international markets have merely become hope. Our vision is to connect the village development together with regional development. We believe that the country will develop as a whole when cities grow as metropolitan areas and villages develop as regional areas.

 An empowered commit tee will be appointed to reassess and allocate new provincial boundaries based on geographical, population and administration aspects.
 Provincial councils will be given added powers to carry out development work pertaining to its Pradeshiya Sabhas, Urban Councils and Municipal Councils within the regional development plan.
 
Relevant ministries will be instructed to directly provide the allocated funding without delay to the Provincial councils to be utilized in the village and local area development work.
 Provincial councils, with the help of their people-centric boards, will be required to complete the development projects of their Grama Sewa division in an efficient and transparent manner within the stipulated time frame.
 By 2025, our actions will result in isolated village's transitioning to fully integrated economy centres with all facilities.

Tamil-Muslim Brotherhood
We never waged war against innocent Tamil civilians. Our sole aim was to free all Sri Lankans from terrorists who battered our country for 30 years. This was the prime reason for launching the humanitarian mission. Even though the war has ended,
our responsibility and accountability will always be important to us. We will take tangible actions to correct the mistakes that happened during the humanitarian mission, however, what we
need in the present scenario is to develop the northern and the eastern provinces where all citizens can live without fear and suspicion.

Kilinochchi and Mannar districts, which were above the poverty line prior to 2014 have now fallen below the poverty line joining Jaffna and Mullaitivu districts. It is clearly evident that the political promises given in 2015 have not materialized and no action has been taken to uplift the economic status of the people in these areas. Our policy does not discriminate Sri
Lankans based upon districts, and we will ensure the upliftment of the economic standards and livelihoods of the people in these areas.

 "Punarjeewana Fund" will be launched to improve the livelihood and basic needs of people in the Northern and Eastern provinces. Under this;
 Housing for families affected by the 30-year war will be provided, while government-sponsored concessionary loan schemes and agricultural loans will be granted for women entrepreneurs trapped under various micro finance schemes.
 Investment schemes shall be made available for rehabilitated youth to become successful in life by way of becoming entrepreneurs. Compensation to families affected by the humanitarian mission will be significantly improved.
 Economic development zones started by our government that can accommodate large and medium scale industries to provide jobs for the youth of the north and the east will be given adequate capital investments.






Gotabaya Rajapaksa 	Vistas of Prosperity and Splendour 	77




 Loans will be provided to youth for vocational training and vocational education that can be repaid when they find employment in their trade.
 All private lands currently being held by the government will be released to their respective owners. Government lands will be leased for large and medium scale agricultural projects and the farmers will be issued permit lands.
 Priority will be given to its inhabitants in recruiting employees for government jobs in these areas. The ability to converse in the Tamil language will be given prominence when recruiting police officers to serve in the Northern and the Eastern provinces.
 Economic zones will be created in every district in these two provinces for agricultural entrepreneurs to add value to their products and start-up small and medium-scale businesses.
 Universities, vocal training institutes, technical colleges, information technology institutes and agricultural research institutes will be created so that the youth of the northern and the eastern provinces have more avenues to fulfil their ambitions.
 Jaffna will get its own "Nelum Pokuna" to encourage youth to utilize their interests in the visual arts. Regular
performances will be held at this venue to create awareness and develop interests. An international sports stadium
and a cricket ground will be established in both these two provinces.

Estate Population
Estate population predominantly working in the tea industry is recognized and accepted by us as equals enjoying the same rights. In our vision for a prosperous Sri Lanka, we will ensure that they will enjoy a good economy, quality housing, education and healthcare facilities to lead a comfortable life.

A programme to address their concerns and alleviate their grievances will be put into place which includes the following;

 Daily wage will be increased to Rs. 1,000.
 To generate an additional income, we will establish a programme to utilize unused estate land to develop horticulture and organic products, which will have a demand in domestic and export markets and also other crops that complement the geographical climate.
 Every school will be given the required human resources and infrastructure facilities to conduct lessons in science and commerce streams which is currently lacking in these estate areas. Furthermore, we will provide a permanent resolution for teaching assistants who were employed in an ad-hoc manner.
 
Housing has been one of the most significant and longstanding issues faced by the estate population. Low- rise housing projects will be introduced that will not harm the plantations, with the support of the government and the estate owners. These housing schemes will have fully- fledged health care centres, pre-schools and community centres. We aim to provide housing for every estate family within these schemes.
 A "New Nutrition Aid Programme" will be implemented to provide proper nutrition need for pregnant women and infants on the estate level. All hospitals and clinics within the estates will receive human and infrastructure upgrades.
 An "Agricultural Institute" will be implemented to impart agricultural research knowledge and modern technical knowhow. A fully-fledged Tamil Medium Teacher Training College will also be established. A branch of the Sri Lanka Open University will be built in Hatton, enabling vocational education and training for the youth.
 We will establish an industrial zone covering the whole estate sector. A comprehensive study will be carried out to analyze the viability of re-opening factories that have been closed down.
 Capital infusion that will help in increasing productivity and adequate fertilization will be provided together with
streamlined management processes for government-owned estates. Abandoned properties such as old bungalows and tea factories will be renovated and converted into attractive tourist destinations.



























































 	













































































































































































